what a movie what an end to a simply superb trilogy take a bow peter jackson. the return of the king is all what you expect in a movie brilliant story brilliant acting brilliant scenic locations brilliant war sequences and a brilliant ending. it is a visual treat even for the blind. the story starts or rather continues with frodo sam and sjmeagol continuing on their journey towards and into mordor for the ultimate purpose of destroying saurons one ring while aragorn and company fight it out to protect minas tirith along with the help of rohan. the sheer magnitude of some scenes takes you by surprise such is the scale of this project and jackson executes it to perfection. the landscapes are gigantic the scenes are breath-taking especially the lighting of the beacons. inspiring to say the least the performance of viggo mortensen as aragorn is perfect. when he says for frodo and my friends you bow to no one it sounds so classy simple and yet so sublime. and what follows is a speechless moment of vigor determination and hope and trust. sean astin as samwise gamgee steals the show towards the end. his performance was nothing short of authentic and complete. his loyalty and friendship towards frodo is depicted beautifully with lovely dialogs and sequences. special appreciation also to the creation of sjmeagol the creature who seeks the ring. his character has been aptly shown on the screen and one can only admire the lengths of effort put in. all in all the return of the king is a success. it is much more than just a movie. it has been a revolution of visual cinema in a way that has inspired many fantasy books and movies from the era of j.r.r. tolkein. the film is complete with the battle at minas tirith one of the best movie scenes ever to be made. it is long a joy to watch and a bigger enjoyment to watch again. the background  is splendid especially towards the end when frodo nearly reaches the foothills of mount doom and proceeds towards the depths along with sam. this movie will move many hearts and win even more. very few movies of this caliber come and go every year let alone a decade and to miss this saga would be a fools idea. without any hesitation a supreme 10 / 10.
