well i guess im a little late to the party as far as writing down a review for this picture. ive seen it a couple of times but that was before i became a regular contributor to the imdb. when i first discovered this site a few years ago the godfather was in the number #1 spot and since then the films have traded places for first and second with shawshank maintaining the top spot most of the time. that puzzled me a bit until i watched it again tonight and ive come away from the picture with a new found appreciation. my favorite movies tend to be the story of underdogs in some way shape or form and my personal top ten list includes titles like on the waterfront to kill a mockingbird and one flew over the cuckoos nest. i may have to reconsider that list an infrequent exercise but one i dont mind doing every now and then as situations warrant. overall the film is darn near perfect. i know its pretty clichթ to state it that way but when you analyze the dialog the characters the directing and the tone of the movie the picture flows flawlessly even when it detours into side stories like brooks hatlens release and new prisoner tommys introduction late in the picture. every set-up every nuance has some importance that eventually converges to symbolize andys quest for escape and personal redemption. remember brooks feeding jake for the first time and eventually setting him free when he receives his own pardon how about andy playing mozart into the prison yard while settling back with a smile of contentment on his face. the story transcends one mans confinement for a crime he didnt commit and focuses instead on his reaction to circumstances beyond his control. paul newman showed us a different way to react to those kinds of conditions in 1967s cool hand luke but his method was self destructive. andy dufresne tim robbins never loses his ability to keep his eye on the prize even if it takes him a couple of decades to do so. but even more so you have here the story of ellis boyd redding morgan freeman a convict who sees andy as a person and over time an inspiration to himself and the rest of the prisoners who call him friend. from andy he comes to understand that even as a prisoner a man can live life on his own terms if he can keep his mind uncluttered by thoughts of desperation and hopelessness. not bad for a convict who started out believing that hope can drive a man insane. i really cant recommend this picture highly enough both for its masterful story telling and its technical execution. the actors even those portraying the most minor characters were seemingly born for their roles. they deliver a seamless performance thats virtually unmatched by most modern films in a picture that hits all the right notes with an inspiring message of discipline and perseverance.
