well here it is one of the most anticipated movies of the year so far. how was it it was excellent. by far the best batman film ever made and of course it will be one of the most memorable action films for a long while. everyone was waiting to see how well heath ledger performed as the joker in this film. he definitely deserves an oscar in his honor. the character was so dark and creepy that it sent chills up my back. compared to heaths other films like 10 things i hate about you and even brokeback mountain proves that this man could actually act doesnt matter what character he could do it. the films storyline has many twists and all are rewarding the story is developed constantly after each scene making you wonder whats next. excellent craft and flows well towards the conclusion. during the film on the scene with batman against the joker bike vs truck. people thought this was the ending. no it kept going which was awesome the story kept getting darker and darker i guess thats why they called it the dark knight as well as the relation to batman himself. the cast was great. with christopher nolan playing batman good performance heath ledger played extremely well maggie was annoying at times but still deserves to be praised. michael caine and morgan freeman had minor roles which satisfied the audiences. aaron eckhart starts with a minor role which slowly progresses and becomes evil which is quite surprising and entertaining to watch. great directing made the movie enjoyable they added more action this time which made the film feel powerful lighting was done well especially showing harvey/ two faces face in the many moods he displayed. great explosions made it entertaining. made you feel great that this is finally the best action to come in a long time. this movie deserves a 10/10 rating and credit on behalf of the great young actor heath ledgers life. may he r.i.p his performance made what this film is right now. i recommend this film for any action fan especially a batman fan. or if your even a heath ledger fan. go ahead right now and see this film. its great
