to call the shawshank redemption a great film would be doing it no justice at all. this is a film that when i watched it the first time i couldnt believe how good it was. i expected a film that would pass the time by and i got a film that i could identify with. if you are feeling sad and you think the worlds a rubbish place this fills you with hope. i love the opening scene where the camera pans around the prison and then the music kicks in it makes you feel awe-inspired. the acting was brilliant you believed what everyone said some films the words are delivered with such cheesiness and fake ness that it makes you want to throw up. i have watched spiderman and even the lines in that make you feel that they mean nothing they just sound good. the film and book reciprocated the message hope springs eternal which means so much because we always live in hope that tomorrow it will be better things might change for us and hope never dies. i think when tim robbins speaks about music how you can never take it away because its in your head. if i have a rubbish day at work then its true that music just lifts you which is re-emphasised with the scene where he plays the music full blast around the prison this of example of piece of script which means so much. the movie uses music to its full potential to give more impact to the words and the characters. this film cannot replicated because the film is a piece of art the director wanted to make money but he also wanted to make a piece of film that made you feel something that had some effect on you after the movie was over. the movie has no bad points its what a story should be about it takes you somewhere that you nether been and makes you feel you lived that experience and you can learn from that experience. the lines delivered will always be remembered get busy living or get busy dying this is the dilemma we face in everyday live. this will live in my memories forever not like the sorry cash-ins of movies. this is a brief synopsis of how great the movie is but words just seem so little to explain the brilliance of this film.
