this trilogy took my breath away it made me laugh it made me wince it even made my eyes tear up in some parts but in totality what it did was completely blow my mind now lets get to the third chapter - the return of the king. unbelievable i will start with the acting. the entire cast was superb beyond imagination. firstly viggo mortensen again delivers a brilliant performance as aragorn of a king emerging from an outlaw. it has been wonderful to watch his steady transformation over the two previous instalments but it really comes full tilt here. sean astin also deserves special mention as the true hero that has been buried inside samwise gamgee surfaces in the final film navigating some of the films most frightening and suspenseful scenes. reliable as ever is sir ian mckellen as thee wise gandalf and now as general of the gondorian armies. finally worth mentioning is elijah wood and andy serkis. elijah perfectly portrays the pain and weariness of an eroding soul. and as the wonderfully created cgi masterpiece andy serkis brings life to the creature gollum through his movements and voice. next up is the direction and script. oh and how wonderful these aspects are peter jackson surpasses the scope and epic glory of the two astonishing previous chapters to bring us something beyond cinema and beyond epic. the craft with which the new-zeelander constructs this film is amazing. he builds in every aspect necessary to forward the narrative but gives it all ample time to wonderfully unfold. working from a brilliant script written by himself his wife fran walsh and phillipa booyens he creates the utter magic on screen that was so evident in the undeniably majestic literary masterpieces of jrr tolkien. the sweeping  just adds to the epic scope of the film and is so wonderful that it almost becomes a character all by itself. the story follows frodo and sams final steps towards mount doom with their treacherous companion gollum in tow. the other members of the fellowship are gearing up for the final battle of middle earth. aragorn is absent from the preparations while he recruits the army of the dead to fulfill their oath. using anduril which is the narsil after it has been reforged. the battle scenes are even more impressive than the visually stunning battle of helms deep from the two towers. with especially the battle of pelenor fields being up there with the final battle as some of the best battle scenes ever created. in the extended edition look out for the scenes where the terrifying witch - king of angmars true power comes into scope. many have complained about the films multi tiered ending. but to me this is a well deserved farewell to some of our most loved cinema characters. if there was an option to give this trilogy more than 10/10 i would but seeing as this is the highest honor i can bestow on it a 10 shall suffice.
