this movie was released when i was all of 9 years old. lucky for me i didnt come across it until nearly 13 years after the fact. i have always been a movie buff and aside from that a big fan of the writings of stephen king. i had read the short story the film is based on and it led me to this film which i was certainly aware of prior but never checked out. afterwards i had a new list of benchmarks for certain aspects of cinema. first and foremost was the story itself. the writing of this tale in screenplay form is absolutely brilliant. the story is fleshed out without lingering in certain areas it would have been easy to linger in and the pacing of the film is steady and constantly building emotional atmosphere. from the early feelings of confusion and bitter justice as our main character is judged by his peers to the dawning realization of what shawshank penitentiary has to offer for its masses of convicted felons. it all flows fabulously as the tale unwinds from the darkest despair of prison life into the slowly building and palpable hope andy and red seem to cultivate for the rest of the prisoners. its this humanity in the face of inhumane conditions that is at the forefront of the shawshank redemptions impact. second but just as vital was the casting. tim robbins has always been in my mind a criminally underrated acting talent. he always seems to carry a sense of outward vulnerability that belies an inner strength and in that conflict one always questions his motivation his reason for doing things. his skill set was married perfectly to the character of andy dufrense who instantly seems in mortal danger within the walls of shawshank but eventually rises above the concrete and steel. indeed its safe to say that mentally at least andy spent very little time in that prison. morgan freeman played the role of red redding in a manner that i think no other actor could have done. he was not only a veteran of shawshank he radiated a sense of calm wisdom and strong sense of brotherhood amongst his fellow inmates that lend themselves very well to freemans on-stage abilities. as a man who can get things red is instrumental in many inmates lives in shawshank. offering a variety of contraband items in return for the typical currency of incarcerated peoples cigarettes petty cash red is as important a character as andy in terms of the films overall message of hope despite hopelessness. and morgan freeman was the best man for that job. the excellent acting doesnt end there. bob gunton who seems to find a niche in playing white-collar criminal types portrays the warden of shawshank as a sinister scheming man who hides his darker desires behind the bible and an arrogant holier-than-thou attitude. william sadler is another outstanding character actor similar to gunton whose face is more popular than his name and who does a fine job as heywood. one of the more important supporting roles was that of the hard right hand of the warden guard officer hadley who was portrayed by clancy brown well known for his bad-ass-type roles. his no-nonsense hard-edged persona fits well and leaves you hating his character but appreciating his ability to make you hate someone who doesnt exist. beyond the writing and the acting this movie was perfect in every other aspect. ive seen it many times over the years often turning to it perhaps subconsciously during particularly rough or depressing patches. ive very rarely come across a film that not only meets my expectations but exceeds them in a way that leaves me constantly comparing future films to it. the shawshank redemption is one of those films where the outstanding story and the remarkable talents of everyone involved combine to bring vivid fiction to life. a masterpiece of modern film-making that has lost none of its impact or relativity nearly 20 years later.
