this movie was amazing peter jackson has a true vision and this entire trilogy was wonderful. tolkien would be extremely proud. the only thing that bums me out now is the fact that there arent any more to look forward to next year... how about making the hobbit  its a sublime union that makes everything in the three movies relevant and provides satisfying closure all around. many liberties are taken from the original novels but for the big screen it works to generate the best possible spectacle and make the plot work evenly. themes of war corruption addiction good and evil and adventure all prevail. as before this film is crafted with excellent photography and editing. all the major players return and contribute fantastic performances in their respective roles especially viggo mortensen who stands out more in this film than before but it is always a pleasure to watch ian mckellen as gandalf along with the rest of the fellowship and all their allies. writing is superb. this production boasts some excellent sets props and costumes. special effects are huge  at its time it was most groundbreaking for generating the biggest armies ever seen on screen all at once. despite aging a bit the effects are still impressive. howard shores music  is as masterful as ever. return of the king delivers the best possible payoff for the lord of the rings trilogy and it might even outshine the hobbit saga in the end. not only does it boast some of the biggest battles but it is also a film with power and beauty. it has cemented itself as one of my all-time favorites was my number-one favorite for quite a few years and the lord of the rings saga overall remains one of the most sublime marriages between spectacle storytelling and style. if you watch the extended edition of this film you will be treated to about an hour of bonus scenes which offers a lot of excellent substance. among the additions there are longer battle scenes a scene showing the fate of saruman and wormtongue an extended encounter with the army of the dead a parley with the mouth of sauron and more. i think most of these scenes are really awesome and this version of the film is definitely worth seeing. 5/5 experience: perfect | story: perfect | film: perfect
