wow what a movie its not only the best of the lord of the rings trilogy it also is one of the best movies of the past couple of years. the lord of the rings: the return of the king is a totally spectacular movie. it has some of the most amazing battle scenes in movie history. the word spectacular isnt good enough to describe it its breathtaking epic and emotional involving. who didnt wanted to pick up a sword and shield and charge with aragorn towards a large number of orcs for honor and glory even though the special effects are far from the best ever peter jackson is a master in mixing the special effect with real life action. the use of it never feels overdone and the result is spectacular as well as believable. i think lots of people were worried after the lord of the rings: the two towers after seeing the battle of helms deep. how was peter jackson ever going to top that great battle well with the lord of the rings: the return of the king he topped it alright the battle for middle earth is something youve never seen before. greatest moment was when the riders of rohan charged it was really a moment in which you felt the true meaning of fighting and dying with honor. also great moment during the immensely large battle were the fights against the oliphaunts just when you thought the battle was over those large creatures appeared really great moment. the characters are possibly at their best in this movie. no characters need introductions anymore and we get to see the deepest of their emotions in this movie even gollums still the movie is not really deserving to be third in the top 250 here on imdb.com. its also not really deserving all those oscars it won. like all the lord of the rings movies its great spectacular and absolutely breathtaking at times but not classic masterpieces in my book. also the movie is far from flawless. once again the editing is just poor at times and what was with the ending couldnt they just think of one ending i expected the end credits to start rolling multiple times during the ending but it just went on and on. despite some of those flaws it still is an excellent movie with some unforgettable battles sequences. truly a wonderful ending for one of the greatest movie trilogies in history. 10/10 http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
