this movie is based on a novella by stephen king but dont let that put you off. its not a horror film rather a thumpingly good ode to friendship hope wit wiles and wisdom brimming with crackling characters and topped with the most twister of twists since the crying game. found guilty of killing his unfaithful wife and her lover in a fit of passion sullen accountant andy dufresne robbins casting off his goof ball image to display more layers than the proverbial onion is shipped to the gothic wind-swept corridors of the shawshank state prison for life. it is here the movie gracefully unfolds. with a beautifully rounded script writer/director darabont conjures up a spellbinding personal odyssey stretching through the years from 1946 to 1967. dufresne all the while protesting his innocence slowly overcomes the hellfire tortures of the prison system - an unblinking range of beatings rapings and abject humiliations - while managing to inspire his fellow inmates to lift their degraded horizons. among them is red freeman in a matchless supporting role the lifer who can given time provide virtually anything. and for reasons best known to himself dufresne requires 40s starlet rita hayworth provisioned in poster form. the mood swings rigorously through every emotion as the cranky wise guy and downright crazed array of criminals bare the brunt of the turbulent life within the doomy shawshank catacomb. then it gets really mean gearing up for its injury-time shockers. dufresne a whiz with figures is bullied into running the wardens gunton petty accounting scams giving him the chance to execute his and the films final greatest miracle. if youre miserable enough to look for gripes then yes it does drift on too long and who needs prison buggery again yet the ending has such poetic completeness youre too busy contentedly chuckling to worry about sore behinds. this may have confounded american audiences - it flopped big-time on planet yank - but a more divine movie experience you will not find this side of oscardom. spread the word.
