this movie has the best movie ever made what more could you ask for.... great actors.... ews should focus on the titles content and context. the best reviews include not only whether you liked or disliked a movie or tv-series but also why. feel free to mention other titles you consider similar and how this one rates in comparison to them. reviews that are not specific to the title will not be posted on our site. please write in english only and note that we do not support html mark-up within the reviews. what not to include: resist the temptation to review on other reviews or features visible on the page. this information and its position on the page is subject to change without notice. a review form is not an appropriate place to tell us there are errors in the database. if youd like to tell us about a specific problem please click the update information button near the bottom of the main details page. imdb is pleased to provide this forum for you to air your opinions on your favorite or not-so-favorite movies and tv-series. while we appreciate your time and reviews we respectfully request that you refrain from including the following in your review: profanity obscenities or spiteful remarks. time-sensitive material i.e. promotional tours seminars lectures etc.. single-word reviews. we want to know why you liked or disliked the title. avoid unannounced spoilers please dont reveal crucial plot elements. if you include a spoiler without warning readers in advance your name will be added to a blacklist and subsequently all your reviews will be discarded automatically. to label a spoiler make sure you check the contains spoilers checkbox. phone numbers mail addresses urls. availability price or ordering/shipping information. writing in all-caps writing sentences in all-uppercase characters is considered shouting and must be avoided. any review in violation of these guidelines will not be posted or may be edited to conform to the guidelines. in addition imdb reserves the right not to post any review f
