this is the greatest movie of all time. from the dialog to the story. has some of the greatest characters and some of the most emotional moments. has one of the greatest and most underrated soundtracks ever. there is a big reason this movie won 11 oscarsshould of won 12 for sean astins incredible performance and it should have been nominated for another for andy serkiss smeagol outstanding performance in the beginning scene of the return of the king. it has the best writing of all time and is just such an amazing movie. never gets old i have seen the movie 5 times just in the past year. peter jackson is a genius and j.r.r tolkien is a god. the characters are so amazing. aragorn: the most humble character who led an army to victory and helped middle earth be saved. his battle speech is one of my favorite speeches of all time and his line for frodo was epic. in the ending of the return of the king when he said to the hobbits you bow to no one was just so powerful and amazing. he is one of my favorite characters in this film for sure. gollum/smeagol: corrupted by the power of the ring and cant control it is amazing and his two separate personalities are different. that one scene in the very beginning of the return of the king was just awesome. when he kills his friend deagol for the ring. gandalf: one of the greatest characters ever. so amazing how he pretty much saved the whole of middle earth. you shall not pass was epic and how he came back to life to finish off his mission was amazing. merry/pippin: the lovable funny twins brought entertainment every time they were on screen. merrys stupidity is hilarious. how courageous such a small person can be was amazing samwise: my favorite character in any movie or bookother than severus snape. the greatest friend anyone can ever have. his amazing speech in two towers touched everyone. he should have won an oscar or at least been nominated. he is amazing in the return of the king when he is telling frodo about the shire and his sadness when frodo decides to keep the ring. when he saved frodo from the spider and from the tower in mordor was so epic. he is the friend everyone should have.
