this is the great movie that i ever see in the batman movie series. although there are some parts which i never expect before. like at the end the movie indicate a new hero will come to this comic character on the next part. it was really exciting. though my opinion is solidifying already after having seen a warner bros. screening last night dark knight ably stands on its own with or without batman begins. at a two and a half hour runtime its definitely an epic of a movie but one that never runs out of gas. a delightful addition to this experience was a healthy amount of imax footage which significantly adds to the feel of being on a personal and gruesome tour of gotham city. christian bale plays such a well rounded batman and bruce wayne qualities that none of those who have donned the cowl before him have pulled off. i still have to remember that bale is british since he speaks with such a spot on american accent. bale has a particular slurring lisp that serves him quite well charmingly for bruce wayne and threateningly for batman. countering him is the late heath ledger who plays such a scary and creepy joker that i found it impossible to not have chills half the time i saw him on screen. what really separates this brand of joker from jack nicholsons portrayal is true unpredictability. its obvious that to be a good guy and think like the joker it really takes a toll and it sure isnt easy. how exactly does one take him down when hes woven his harebrained plot around multiple hostages explosives or disappearing parlor tricks initially i was uneasy about how the character of harvey dent would be handled. in my mind there was really only one faithful portrayal of him and that could be found in the batman animated series of the early 90s. as well as tommy lee jones could have handled him in batman forever he certainly did not though it still was a highlight of that movie. aaron eckhart ably assumes the mantle here delivering a performance out of this world easily on par with the batman animated series.
