this is the first batman movie thats not about batman. its no traditional yarn about a protagonist fighting a villain with audiences hoping the hero beats the bad guy. on the contrary its a thrilling story about the cost of heroism and seduction by evil. tim burton explored anti-hero themes with michelle pfeiffers brooding catwoman in batman returns and although burton failed to flesh it out many people agree catwoman was the best part of that film. director christopher nolan knows better having demonstrated a hitchcockian mastery of psychology with themes of guilt insomnia and competition the prestige. in his film we meet joker a chilling heath ledger a sociopath with a taste for anarchy. he doesnt want revenge or power. in one scene he burns a mountain of cash. the mobsters call him crazy and before he cuts them to pieces he mutters its not about money. its about sending a message. right away we know he isnt a villain we can predict or understand. consequently hes pretty terrifying. ledgers joker is so compelling that he has the best lines and the most memorable scenes. usually we watch superhero films to see how the protagonist overcomes the villain. but in the dark knight we strangely cheer as the joker kicks ass at robbing banks manipulating the mob and even destroying a hospital. strangely enough we walk away from the experience not wanting to be batman. we want to be joker. but thats not what i mean when i say this movie isnt about batman. its actually about da harvey dent aaron eckhart whose strong performance will be overshadowed by ledgers. he is gothams white knight and his tragedy revolves around an anecdote told early in the film about the roman who guards his city not out of power lust but of civic duty-- to which his girlfriend and assistant da rachel dawes maggie gyllenhaal wisely refutes dont forget the last man given that duty was named caesar. here lies the central theme-- a man holds power until death or long enough to see himself become the villain. its deep stuff for a batman movie but it works extremely well. many may leave the film wondering why but it has to do with what we missed from star wars episode iii. although were horrified by jokers mind whose villainy rivals anthony hopkins hannibal lecter we cant help but be strangely drawn to his eerie confidence manic charisma and unstoppable power. due to some grueling and unexpected events dent falls from grace and becomes seduced by jokers evil. lets not forget batman who is common-denominator but not centerpiece to the war between dent and joker. dent proclaims batman as gothams hero but others dont agree-- including bruce wayne. wayne is still a jealous self-absorbed and emotionally tortured brat in many ways as we learned from batman begins. he doesnt see himself as a hero. and although he despises dent for stealing rachel away from him he deeply admires him. here we draw the dichotomy of white knight dent and dark knight batman. bruce wayne knows that he cant have rachel unless he gives up batman forever. but theres a pain within him that keeps him out at night fighting his personal demons. he loves rachel the same way dent loves rachel but he wont give up being batman. bruce wayne is not a noble self-sacrificing hero. he has his cake and wants to eat it too. equally dent wants to fight a hard line with crime. hes incorruptible unwilling to compromise doing it for principles of righteousness rather than personal glory. he too refuses to be a hero. but unlike batman he is self-sacrificing fighting in broad daylight in full vulnerability even if it puts him and his loved ones at risk. dont worry-- nolan never lets this character drama drag the story. the movie is wall-to-wall action with sensational stunt sequences that exceed any prior batman film primarily because it uses very few digital effects. its got a gritty organic feel of urban combat like michael manns heat which brought us into a downtown la war-zone where gunshots echo off the walls of buildings. as we witness a chase between an 18-wheeler and a swat truck we know its actually happening. many filmmakers neglect what steven spielberg calls geography and consequent quick-cutting and stylistic shots make the viewer lose their sense of setting. but nolan keeps things very real using helicopter shots and wide-angle lenses the way he did with prior films that depended on atmosphere insomnia the prestige. most people familiar with the comics know that dent becomes the villain two-face. but nolan makes a statement with dents transformation to evil. harvey dent succumbs to crime because his life has endured tragedy and everything hes stood for has fallen to pieces. meanwhile joker isnt so much a villain as a sardonic force of nature reminiscent of javier bardems anton chigurh in no country for old men. for most of the movie batman merely assists dent in his war on evil. but in the end batman takes the fall for two-faces crimes allowing dents legacy to live on. in this he truly becomes the dark knight because he allows the white knight to triumph. even though evil has apparently won the battle batman refuses to allow evil to win the war. i think many people write off superhero movies assuming they dont hold literary merit-- this was the case with burtons zany batman and joel schumachers cartoon-like batman. i hope the dark knight proves that such a belief is untrue. check out the original comics or the animated series and youll see theres a lot more being said with these characters. the joker is not funny like jack nicholson or cesar romero. hes scary. hes scarier because he doesnt take the world seriously. fortunately the film takes itself seriously and its one of the best in recent years.
