this is one of those films that come once in a blue moon. the ones that leave you sitting on your seat staring at the screen when the film is ended and trying to think of a word to describe the excellence of the film although shawshank does take a while to get started but you understand why later on the film. the characters need to be explained for you to understand later points in the film. what really makes this film great is the use of no special effects no stunts just plain simple amazingly originalwitty story writing and outstanding acting by every character in the film including the minor ones. just based in a prison men talking to each other. this film does make you feel involved in the film. you feel every characters emotions and pain and share their joy and happiness. when the film ends it takes you 10 seconds to get back to reality again - its just that compelling best personal film of all time and best film on imdb and rightly so spectacular film   however it is a requirement that the dialogues are made to be easier to understand rather than being kept in the original tolkien style since you cannot re-see a scene like when you can re-read a part of the book if you did not understand. the choice of actors are undoubtedly most suitable while the costume and prosthetics are as realistic as it gets. howard shore was great and words could not describe the sensations that flow out of each of his pieces. i do not understand why some people actually accuse the film of being terrible in any aspect. the length of the film is a necessity in order to be able to portray the depth of the story and do justice to tolkiens masterpiece. if it was to be any shorter then the film would be missing essential elements required to bring out the majesty of middle-earth. it is simply unfair to say that and this is missing therefore it is not worth watching because if jackson was to include everything each of the trilogy would be over 10 hours long assuming it took everyone that long to read. i for one will not be sitting in a chair for 10 hours and i believe it will also be unpractical to produce a movie that is 10 hours long. it follows that there will be minor discrepancies in the plot but it did not deter the storyline keeping in mind that this is an adaptation. despite some criticism of this film being overrated i believe that it deserves to be ranked as one of the best films ever produced and its grandeur unmatched. overall this is a very enchanting film that is worth watching especially for fans of the lord of the rings. the extended edition is also a personal recommendation as it includes some missing elements that were not necessary for the progression of the plot but adds nicely to the storyline. 
