with ”‰batman begins”_ by christopher nolan tried something brash . a reboot to the film path of the famous hero of dc comics who had already experienced four transfers to the big screen with the original inspired top touch of burton. the 2005 film  however constituted a more management - an attempt to prepare the hero  something that you would complete in a future sequel despite an expected attractive adventure . and because the cinema management and preparations -profile within the limits of the sail hardly enjoy direct assessment and acceptance the challenge is quickly forgotten . as the next ... the ”‰dark knight”_ is a film haunted . the question that arises is whether this feeling is due solely to the unexpected death of ledger and expenses  presence on the big screen . there is a flood of stimuli that attack you throughout the course of the film and this is enough to convince that the film not only enjoyed by the tragic circumstances of a death . in one scenario is pervasive gloomy atmosphere and as the story progresses it becomes increasingly conscious . traditional clichÕ©s blockbusters canceled by anarchist way  particularly in the second half  where anything can go wrong goes and all that is dominated by death and loss . all main characters dominate the screen without nevertheless thwarted action . the bale experiencing two natures hero literally torn . the eckhart - probably the most favored role screenplay - initially posing charming hypnotized us as soon as his character changes the standards . the oldman despite strictly earthly existence of the role is never on the sidelines . the maggie gyllenhaal and loses if the impressions in the last scene of overall standing in the only decent actress . the morgan freeman and michael caine can not help but complement beautifully cast in two key roles . make no mistake  though. the true protagonist of ”‰dark knight”_ no different from heath ledger and the joker . is itself a living horror  a freak storyline than their worst nightmares . in some scenes may remind you of a psychotic alter-ego of edward scissorhands or something of the unique otherworldly figure of hannibal lecter. thanks to him much the movie looks so dark and threatening. personally at least  it took me a few seconds to inspiration magic scene input to  forget  that the same role was impersonate the great nicholson. combining creative logic of a blockbuster with a full script and insightful directorial eye of nolan the ”‰dark knight”_ gives the best explanation for the original intentions of ”‰batman begins”_. in a film where various identified - operational - oddly  it is not surprising that the major disadvantage is also a paradox . there is so much to 145 minutes can hardly meet the viewer from only one view . despite the apparent lack of economy  however  the  dark knight  looks capable resurrect halls in lean periods . and do not be surprised if you found high in the preferences for the upcoming oscars without going necessarily refer only to level roles ledger background music or art direction . sorry for bad english :
