this cant be called a feature film. this is a masterpiece like beethovens symphony. it is an insult to call this a movie. no matter how many times you watch you love it. it is music to the eyes. while enough has been said about the plot characters comparison history context i wont delve into the specifics but give the review on a very high level. this applies to both the novice as well as the critic. from so many amazing things about the movie the greatest one is the music that is what has its effect on our minds while perfectly befitting the characters plot flow of the movie. together with the characters of hero villain and the shady 3rd character the viewer feels he is the protagonist. immersive. joyous. scary. hopeful. the pace of movie the generous full blown action no holes barred spectacular scenes massive destruction grand setting is fabulous. not a single scene act dialog in this movie i believe is not appreciable. it just blends in perfectly. its a treat. you need this in your permanent collection and watch it in a home theater with full volume. listen to the tracks build an atmosphere of chaos cultivate a climate of anarchy darkness before you watch and even after the movie ends let the music roll on. this will stay with you for months. how the talented actors and the even more talented director pull off such a massive but delicate spectacular but deep grand but humane movie is a wonder in itself. this is my first ever review that too in 2013 5 years after the movie am still a fan of it. i saw the movie without any context of batman nolan i simply stepped into a movie hall one rainy evening in mumbai it was almost empty.... and at the end of it i sat alone contemplating how such a flabbergasting movie it cud be. i went home did some research saw this movie 5 more times including once in imax. my friends tell me im an ambassador of this movie but they liked it too. although i went in too deep to understand the nuances character development dialogs and the working behind it. one of them rightly said this is not an action movie. do not categorize it as such. just because it is fictional it cant be miscategorised this is an opera a drama an anthropology of our times.
