there is just one thing that differentiates a legend from ordinary man. its his fight with inner demons to over come all his fear. that defines a legend. and this is what batman stands for. batman is not just another comic character but its a complete saga of how you stand tall in spite of losing everything walk fearlessly even when you are lonely and how you fight back against all odds and over shadow your own fear. fear- the most dominated emotion mankind has ever witnessed. batman is no exception he still has fear he still gets scared of losing those who are close to him and he is still in doubts when it comes to decision. but what is interesting and inspirational about batman is that he has the ability to use wisely the biggest and most dangerous weapons of all time perfectly- brain thats why he is my favourite comic character and this time batman is putting everything on the line to save the world from out of control freak- the joker. a spell bounded performance by heath ledger as the joker. though he is no more with us but his immortal act as joker is an oscar winning performance and will always be remembered. your heart comes out to mouth to see the horror joker creates. in start i was bit confused as his performance reminded me of jack nicholson from the first batman movie but later i realised that this is for real. he did not imitate jack but showcased the true and horrible side of a real joker. the best part about heath is that he displayed the flip side of a joker- fearless. there are many times when we feel that some one could have done better with certain roles but not here. here heath is perfect as a joker and from now on i will call him heath joker ledger the story is about a terror that has shaken the underworld of gotham. the fear of batman is getting in to criminal minds and all of them are now thinking where their money can be saved from batmans reach. and thats where the joker comes with a plan to these criminals- kill batman. now with his perverted mind the joker is behind batmans life and what follows is a scary hell of a ride of hide n seek game of faith vs. courage. at one end joker has no fear and on the other batman has a responsibility of saving gotham. now the important question is that who will win and more than that at what cost apart from breaking box office records this movie is also able to break the pattern of film making. batman series is an action series. when you make an action movie you give the required pace in a movie by focusing on elaborating the action scenes but here the director builds the movie with a mix of action as well as other emotional scenes. step by step movie gives its audience action and emotion at the time when its required but with an unexpected style. dark intense and a complete batman style. the batman movies are famous for its back ground music and the dark knight is no exception. specially when there is sound of a whistle in background of some intense scenes in the movie. i felt a rush in to my blood and boiling my brain. my eyes popped out while watching those scenes. to mention batmans grilling session with the joker is a masterpiece. the scene was simply awesome mainly coz of background music. harvey dents character could have been better post he becomes 2-faced. i was expecting his character to be more involved and longer in the series. rachel dawes is also a very strong influencing character in the movie. her involvement in the movie is much focused than katie holmes in batman begins but the point im making here is the glam factor in this movie. she was not given that much footage in a glamorous way. nevertheless the plot did not allow audience to think that way either. action scenes in this movie are well thought of and will chill the audiences spinal chords. my favourite is the chase scene where joker is trying best to catch harvey dent and how batman comes in between. this is where batman says asta la vista and welcomes his new girl friend- his damn new bike its called batpod i can imagine how excited you will be when you know that batman is now going to catch the joker and joker is happy that batman has missed his shot. this is sheer delight to watch the creative involvement of special effects blended with brilliant cinematography. unlike other hollywood flicks the dark knight is a lengthy movie of more than 2 ”_ hrs of non-stop adrenaline but you wont mind spending that much time watching it. many times we feel that some movies couldve been shorter and some lengthier but with the dark knight thats not the case. its mainly because the movie ends up at the time when it is required to scroll the curtains down. i was so satisfied while coming out from the movie hall. perfect ending well the dark knight is just a beginning. now im expecting the penguin and the riddler to come in to the picture and take this battle ahead. as i said earlier im a big fan of batman and after this movie im mad about not just batman but each and every part of his movies music and the joker. now while im rushing straight to the nearest movie store to buy all original movies and soundtracks of batman series you go ahead and enjoy a fearless life just like the joker or batman- choice is yours
