there have been many cases in film history when a film is terrific do to the actors. then there are some films are great because of what was written. with the shawshank redemption imdbs favorite film in works in both cases. the acting is superb and the film is incredibly well written and very justified. tim robbins plays andy dufrense a banker who has been accused of murdering his wife and her lover. so he is sent to shawshank prison where he experiences lots of things. he forms a bond with redplayed terrificly by morgan freeman. the wardenplayed by bob gunton hates him. he is raped. and all of this is leading to his escape after being in there for over twenty years. the shawshank redemption which is based on a shot story by stephen king is one of the most interesting films ever made. ita also one of the best films ever made too. what is one way to tell: when you hear morgan freemans narration you know youre in good hands. the acting is explosive. everyone does such a good job. the shawshank redemption is a little long but the length is tolerable. mainly because from the opening scene the film has you hooked. morgan freeman gives the better performance of the two but the duo of robbins and freeman is once in a lifetime. the shawshank redemption was an oscar upset. it was nominated for seven including best picture best actormorgan freeman and best writing. and it lost best picture to forrest gump which is also a great movie. 94 was the year of pulp fiction also. another oscar upset. i prefer pulp fiction but the shawshank redemption is still one of the best films ever made. the shawshank redemption:a+  there is blood gore limbs cut off people on horses being crushed and kicked through the air by giant elephants called mumakil  you see orcs shoot a million arrows at an oncoming rohan army and when they hit the horses they flop to the ground and the riders hit it hard and are thrown  you see armies crushing other armies in waves literally  you see rocks from catapults hit and crush people in the wonderfully-made city immense destruction trolls whacking people and crushing them with their clubs and so on. there is a lot of violence i havent gotten to describe that explains the sheer immensity of this film and remember those gargoyles from the second film they call nazgul well lets just say gondorian soldiers taste good and are fun to pick up and drop from 1000 feet in the air however violence and gigantic battles is not only what makes this film great. what makes it great are the characters who you love so much the music which is some of the best i ever heard and most of all the visuals. they are very amazing and beautiful. even minas morgul the dark city of mordor is an eye-catcher. the scenery of new zealand-which is where this work of art was filmed-is just wonderful. the special effects are also some of the best ive ever seen. the oliphaunts nickname for the mumakil the giant elephants are cgi but not obviously. they are some of the most real-looking fake images ive ever witnessed the soldiers which get crushed thrown the horses that are thrown they all look real too which is what makes the battle scenes frightening they look so real the best special effect in the film however is gollum. he is also the best acted-character in the film and the best acted cgi character ever he practically is real from his emotions to his body to the hairs on his head his voice is also memorable i am trying to perfect doing it myself. he is a sight to see. the script is amazing the story is amazing everything is amazing this is one of my highest-recommended films. thank you j.r.r. tolkien for creating this wonderful story. thank you peter jackson for interpreting this wonderful story to film. and thank you all for making this possible. 10 out of 10 
