there are very few people ive met who did not like the dark knight 2008. they tend to dislike the fact that it is so rooted in reality but for me when compared with how outrageous the batman mythos can get this is a major plus that wins this film 10 out of 10 stars. lets start off with the best: heath ledger whilst different as the joker incorporates so much from the batman comics character into his performance that even though hes punk-ish and diverse in the role i totally bought him as being an updated version of the clown prince of crime. his untimely death cheated the cinema of an up-and-coming name but this is such a great legacy for him to leave behind. this is not to say that i prefer him over jack nicholson or vice versa. what nicholson did in batman 1989 was loyal and apt for that film. but this film charts dangerous characters in a dangerous world that has clearly changed since tim burtons first batman opus and nolan proves that whilst the old batman films may have been made for sheer entertainment value he is trying to convey a message to his audience. whether you buy that message or not is all a matter of interpretation. the return to chicago as the main spread of gotham city was a fantastic idea and even though i miss some of the landmarks of the previous film particularly wayne tower i accept why nolan changed pace with this sequel and hey at least the monorail makes a discreet return in some scenes here the use of locations is absolutely stunning. i am not sure if it was nolans filming style or the fact that this film did things that seemed so new in an age where everything seems to have already been done but there are plenty of memorable stunts and dialogue sequences here. unlike many i also enjoyed the character of rachel dawes and whilst i accept that katie holmes was a little inexperienced in batman begins 2005 her character wasnt used to being confronted by crooks quite as freaky as the scarecrow was she holmes replacement here by maggie gyllenhaal albeit complicating the continuity between the two films slightly seems quite appropriate. gyllenhaal is more convincing in her work with both aaron eckhart and heath ledger but i agree that she is heartless and ungrateful to christian bales batman/bruce wayne. but in many ways that adds to the poignancy of both this film and its sequel. moving along to harvey dent you may be a billy dee williams fan or a tommy lee jones person but you cannot deny that aaron eckhart gives equal consideration to both dent and his twisted alter-ego harvey two- face. in fact i think that harvey and two-face have rarely been adapted in a better way with one of the other great interpretations being two-face parts i & ii from batman: the animated series. but this is the first live-action depiction of the character/s to really come through in showing both of them although i would have liked two- face to be carried over into another sequel. but we must not sideline batman/bruce wayne must we christian bale continues to be one of the better performers to play batman but i know that his gravelly batman voice has irritated many. sure bales batman voice is sometimes difficult to understand on a first viewing and is certainly hilarious when taken in isolation or imitated on youtube but if bruce wayne didnt disguise his voice it would be even more obvious that he was batman wouldnt it michael caine again lends warmth and even more depth to his depiction of alfred pennyworth whilst morgan freeman remains charming and refreshing as lucius fox. gary oldman is given quite a wedge of the plot himself and it is interesting to see that whilst other actors to portray jim gordon were restricted in what the character could do he undertakes almost as much as the dark knight himself one other character from the previous film makes a playful and often overlooked return just after the jokers opening bank robbery but it is awesome to see that nolan didnt just shoot the scene using a stuntman. and the batmobile and its successor remain the stars of the gadgetry rolled out for this instalment especially in a chase scene that will literally knock your socks off. in the gadgets section however there is a new sonar toy that can be disorienting to audiences on the first few viewings of the film but as you get used to it its not a lot of trouble at all. hans zimmer and james newton howard deliver a tense and exciting  that showcases the jokers chaotic new theme whilst developing the themes for batman and bruce waynes personal life as introduced in the previous film. on that note even though viewing batman begins isnt essential viewing for this instalment it has surprised me how many people were unaware of it before seeing this film. its okay to miss out batman begins here but if youre intending to watch the dark knight and the dark knight rises 2012 you had best watch batman begins first as you will be very lost when it comes to understanding the final instalment anyway now that weve got all of that sorted sit back and enjoy a film that undoubtedly is a modern classic that raised the bar not only for comic book films but continues to serve as a massive inspiration in many other areas i.e. sherlock the avengers skyfall etc.  it was made for anybody who loves a great story. j.r.r tolkien knew that and so did peter jackson. and thats why the lotr trilogy is so marvellously good. 
