the theme to this film which is a continuation in the series and in theme from batman begins is that good versus evil is not only an external fight between a good guy and a bad guy but also is a constant battle that rages inside each and every one of us. christian bale as bruce wayne is forced to make a great deal of judgment calls based upon the circumstances being piled against him by the joker played by heath ledger. unfortunately some of the choices and actions he performs cause him to become alienated from his closest friends and ultimately the city in its entirety. but in doing so he solidifies himself as the classic tragic hero that the city loves and hates in equal measure. throughout the film harvey dent played by aaron eckhart undergoes a dramatic transformation through giving in to this darker side. he begins as what the people of gotham city refer to as the white knight due to his relentless pursuit of justice and for being a seemingly incorruptible source of good. as he is brought low by the machinations of the joker bruce is forced to sacrifice his own appearance of good to prevent dents fall from grace from completely disheartening the already injured psyche of gotham city. in keeping with the tradition of batman begins this film goes above and beyond anything i expected or hoped for. bale ledger and eckhart form an engrossing triangle that keeps you at the edge of your seat throughout. with equal parts action and suspense youre never left complacent. the characters are so real that you find yourself getting sucked into their world almost immediately. bale continues to make bruce wayne a believable albeit moody hero forced into making decisions that i wouldnt wish upon even my worst enemy. with a villain like the joker many myself included were worried about whether he would be convincing as a source of evil as opposed to a quirky joke of a nemesis as has been too frequently betrayed in the past through the batman franchise just watch jim carrey as the riddler in batman & robin. ledger gave a mind-blowing performance with equal parts cruelty humor and crazy. he created a persona so creepy yet brilliant youre almost always left in awe when he is on the screen. all in all a fantastic sequel that leaves the audience veritably foaming at the mouth for the next installment.
