the movie is all what i expect and imagine from the book excellent effects actors direction photography is amazing..the music... i have no words... the movie has a amazing develop from the first movie so this is the most involving but the end although the length is ... well.. from usa today: the three-part story of courage friendship honor and duty _яс spanning the fellowship of the ring 2001 the two towers 2002 and the return of the king which comes to theaters tonight _яс is ideally suited to epic film-making. it is steeped in fast-paced action and grand adventure yet still grounded in humanity _яс a rare combination among large-scale film extravaganzas. it isnt until now that director peter jacksons efforts can be fully and fairly judged notwithstanding the monumental box office success of the first two films which have grossed $1.8 billion worldwide. as good as each individual movie is the third film vaults the work into the stratosphere of classic movies. key characters are enhanced new civilizations visited and battles fought more intensely while feelings and motivations are plumbed more deeply and movingly. after the release of the first and second films one wondered how the trilogy as a nine-hour film fest might compare with other cinematic watermarks. in its entirety the lord of the rings surpasses other multi-part sagas such as star wars or even the godfather. both star wars and the godfather had weak links whole movies that didnt work as well as the best of the series. rings maintains the same standard of excellence with each film and grows more assured with each installment. of course some of that escalating power is attributable to the storytelling prowess of j.r.r. tolkien upon whose classic novels the trilogy is based. the books depict the odyssey of the humble hobbit frodo whose quest is to destroy a powerful ring that could enslave all the inhabitants of the fictional land of middle-earth. helping him accomplish his mission is a heroic cadre of creatures: gandalf the wizard
