the movie begins with batman and lt. jim gordon closing in on the organized crime groups and leaders. in gotham the gangs are united because of the presence of batman. he put tracers on the money of the gangs to see its flow so that it will be easier to catch the leaders. these gangs have a chinese national as their accountant and money launderer. he takes all of their money out of the banks to keep the money safe before the police get it. this plan works well because the police went to the banks and the money was gone. their accountant lou also left the country to avoid any charges against him. then the joker crashes the gangs meeting offering to kill batman for half of their money. all the leaders said that the joker was ridiculous but once batman brought lou from china to the police the leaders gave the joker access to all the man and utilities. the joker wages war against batman by trying to lure out the man under the mask by killing innocent people. the batman was ready to come out in a conference when suddenly the new district attorney harvey dent said he was batman. the joker then tried to kill dent but the batman hid him. in the aftermath the joker took dents girlfriend rachel who happens to be batmans ex-girlfriend and threw her out a window. this exposed the batmans weakness for rachel because he jumped out after her. the joker then takes dent and rachel and on opposite sides of the city and puts them in a room full of explosive with enough time for batman to save one. the batman decides to go after dent who burns half of his face in the explosion which means rachel died. dent was furious with the batman and started to hate the world. the joker paid him a visit in the hospital and convinced him to blame the world. the batman captures the joker and is called to assist lt. gordon in saving his family from harvey dent. while saving the son of gordon batman kills dent. he decides to take all the blame on himself to keep hope in the city. the joker makes the dark knight a must watch film because he becomes the greatest villain of all time. joker is a great super villain because he has no motive for his actions. in the opening scene you can see that the joker is a mastermind. he plans a bank robbery second by second and in this job he kills all of the robbers that he hired to be left with all the money. some argue that this is contradictory later in the movie where he burns money to show he does not care about the money. in reality the joker planned this job to show the police that there is a new villain in gotham. the joker wants batman to kill him knowing that the batman will not kill because justice will not be done. the joker draws focus on the batman throughout the movie but in the end the unpredicted happens. the joker shows batman that his plan was to turn dent the notorious new district attorney being praised as the white knight into a villain. the joker does not want fame money or revenge. he simply wants to show the world that all people have their dark side but they chose to be good. the joker knows exactly what to say to trigger people to react in a fit of rage and he knows exactly how to react in that situation. a villain should be terrifying in every scene and the joker is a prime example of this. when he walks in on all of the gangs leaders meeting and is approached with opposition he opens his jacket to reveal about 6 grenades wired. he does not care about his life let alone anybody others. one of the most memorable qualities about the joker is his scars. in the movie we never learn how he actually received them. every time he brings up the scars the reasoning changes to apply to the person but later he ends up scarring the people to match him. heath ledger picked up a habit of flicking his tongue while trying to figure out the best was to portray the joker and the little tongue flip in between the sentences make him seem creepier and builds suspense. at one scene the joker is in the middle of the road crippled with the batman speeding violently straight at the joker. the jokers reaction is surprising instead of trying to avoid the batman he stands and is calling for batman to kill him. i can picture that scene now the joker chanting and later screaming come on. come on. i want you to do it. come on hit me hit me that scene shows that the joker is fearless which in return makes him unpredictable and suspenseful. a villain that is asking for death knowing that if batman kills him that batman will become a vigilante. in conclusion the joker is successful in flipping the one time unstoppable incorruptible district attorney harvey dent into a villain. this causes batman to choose to let all of the peoples hopes and dreams of a brighter future die with dent or should the story be flipped turning the batman into the cities most hated man. the jokers success in making the batman have to go into hiding means that he accomplished what he wanted which makes him the greatest villain. heath ledgers role as the joker won 32 best supporting character awards. ledgers acting and presentation of the joker is unmatched. the joker became the greatest villain of all time in the dark knight.
