the lord of the rings: the return of the king was an amazing third part of the lord of the rings trilogy. it was good to show the prologue on how smeagol/gollum got the ring. so it was shown that he murdered his own cousin deagol. through this we can all understand on how gollum exactly got the ring. if it hadnt for the prologue we could have just thought that gollum got it by himself. but no what happened was deagol got it first and stolen by smeagol by killing deagol. the effects made in the three hunters visit to the dimholt road where the ghosts who will answer to the king of gondor is found is wonderful. it was never seen clearly as digitally edited but more life-like. in the battle of pelennor fields it was an amazing scene where thousands of orcs were made through massive a software intended to create multiples of characters. the rohan scenery was great theoden s screenplay during that time was most impressively appropriate for their situation. eowyn also even as a woman acted great by miranda otto in taking down the oliphaunt. i really loved her style. in the part where legolas was told by aragorn to take down the oliphaunt. i love how legolas acted by orlando bloom in that scene. i do not know whether it was digitally edited of his jumping or it was his own stunt. but however it was done it was amazing and stylish in the front of the black gate scene i have seen the extended edition of rotk and the mouth of sauron was exclusively shown. i could have wanted it to be part of the movie but i understand that the movie is rate pg-13 and is needed not to show to much brutality. the part where sam was going to help frodo out i understood that the ring was still tempting frodo. have any of you realized that the ring didnt break out easily it was because it wanted frodo to come after it and save it. but frodo realized to climb up with the help of sam and that was the time that the ring broke because it knew that it will be destroyed once frodo turns his back on it. i love how they interpreted the rings desire into the movie though some may not see it that way. the part where frodo was going to leave for valinor i was sad that part. i even thought to myself why would frodo go but when he said to sam we set out to save the shire sam and it has been saved but not for me. so i realized that frodo as a hero did it not for himself but for his beloved home. the movie was incredibly awesomely greatly amazingly wonderfully beautifully made the crew and cast really made tolkiens work come to life go lotr: rotk
