the longest movie ever made so long that the director had to divide it in three parts and thats why people call a trilogy. 10 hours of a phenomenal spectacle that will leave anyone with tears and a heavy heart after the magnificent end. in the fellowship of the ring we start with the journey of frodo elijah wood and sam sean astin towards to mordor lair of the dark lord sauron. and we see the great training and union of the fellowship of the ring an alliance of all the living beings of middle-earth on a mission to destroy the one ring and thus save the world from the darkness. in two towers we have the beginning of the great war between humans and orcs with the army of saruman christopher lee marching against the kingdom of rohan. and aragorn viggo mortensen along with the elf legolas orlando bloom and the dwarf gimli john rhys-davies joining in the battle. meanwhile frodo and sam are getting closer every day to the lair of sauron now having the help of the strange creature gollum / smeagol andy serkis who wants by all means his precious. and finally in the return of the king we have the spectacular ending to the trilogy / film. since the beginning of the film we felt the feeling that everything is coming to an end. frodo and sam finally reached mordor and try to find a way to infiltrate into the enemy territory and gollum / smeagol plans to take the ring from frodo who becomes increasingly heavy. and on the other side we have the beginning of the great battle that we expected since the first movie the showdown between humans and orcs in the battle that will determine the fate of the world with all the characters we have learned to love here together in this fight to the uncertain ending. peter jackson director-writer brought to life the masterpiece of books lord of the rings by the genius jrr tolkien. this can be the best adaptation of a book to film ever made if the book is already a masterpiece in the world of books jackson made a masterpiece of cinema. the gigantic story that was told in six books in film it was told in one film. a film of more than 10 hours it had to be divided into three parts forming the best trilogy already made. i say its just a movie because all three movies work as one from the beginning to the end we realize that. since the first film or first part we have the magic of tolkiens working here along with jackson fran walsh and philippa boyens writers have recreated and remained faithful to tolkiens work and the film managed to raise the themes of friendship courage and while it has always had religious references in the book and the film manages to convey everything in the greatest perfection. not only the writing is phenomenal but the visual effects are stunning giving a gigantic scale the movie so well detailed visual effects that make everything look so realistic. and the effects are not only stunning but also that the soundtrack that is simply magnificent. a trilogy that works as a single film that is a true masterpiece. a landmark in film history thanks to excellent writing and direction of jackson and fantastic performances from all the cast the lord of the rings is the epic fantasy stunning in every detail and be loved by all. 10/10
