the joker is the main attraction of this movie. this character was simply brilliant. everything went according to plan and this is one of the most faultless characters you will ever see. before ledger was confirmed to play the joker in july 2006 paul bettanylachy hulmeadrien brodysteve carelland robin williams expressed their interest in the role. however nolan preferred ledger for his chaotic interpretation of the character. ledger was also interested in doing a film having high expectation. he described his joker as a psychopathic mass murdering schizophrenic clown with zero empathy. throughout the film the joker states his desire to upset social order through crime and comes to define himself by his conflict with batman. to prepare for the role ledger lived alone in a hotel room for a month formulating the characters posture voice and personality and kept a diary in which he recorded the jokers thoughts and feelings. ledger eventually generated a voice unlike jack nicholsons character in tim burtons 1989 batman film. theres a bit of everything in him. theres nothing that consistent ledger said. ledger was allowed to shoot and mostly direct the videos the joker sends out as warnings. each take ledger made was different from the last. nolan was impressed enough with the first video shoot. ledgers acting was so lively that most people will agree that this is the best villain character ever. even when it comes to the best acting performance of all time joker should be in the top three. his character was so touching and enthusiastic that people will want to be the joker rather than becoming batman if they have a choice. this character had a deep impact in viewers mind. on january 22 2008 after he had completed filming the dark knight ledger died of an accidental prescription drug overdose leading to intense press attention and memorial tributes. it was tremendously emotional right when he passed having to go back in and look at him every day nolan recalled. but the truth is i feel very lucky to have something productive to do to have a performance that he was very very proud of and that he had entrusted to me to finish. all of ledgers scenes appear as he completed them in the filming
