the dark knight maintained the intensity and overall gunmetal grayish feel that sets this batman apart. the film takes us to a gotham city that has grown accustomed to the big bats crime-fighting crusades and the last remaining big time criminals have actually grown fearful of his wrath. they form an alliance to attempt to keep their illicit business activities alive but are feeling even more pressure from yet a different angle: the passionate and fearless new district attorney harvey dent. recognizing the crime groups looming extinction a stranger enters their circle and offers what he thinks is the only solution: kill batman. the bad guys dont know if they can trust this seemingly demented madman and they later learn the hard way that they dont really have a choice for the most disturbing part of the jokers personality is his motive. he doesnt care about money or power. he just enjoys causing trouble and watching with pleasure from the sidelines as the terrorized city scrambles in mayhem...which leads me to the real star of this film heath ledger. ledgers performance as the joker is astounding and consuming. we come face-to-face with a villain bearing the coldness of a psychopath and a personality that remains as mysterious and inexplicable as the real reason for the scars on his face. he develops the air of the lone offender quite early on as he nonchalantly kills those who help him commit his crimes. yet he has no problem building an army of followers and the viewers easily find that believable. as insane as he is hes focused and quite determined. ledger also brings the jokers humor to the role but he does it in a way that is unique to this interpretation...with subtlety and honesty. the very words and mannerisms that made me laugh also evoked feelings of sadness in its clarity. the evil is incredibly convincing. although batman is a character that is often marketed towards kids this film is definitely not appropriate for young children. in addition to the dark images the violence both seen and implied is sometimes unsettling and ledgers joker is chilling even for adult viewers. having said that this is by far one of the best films ive ever seen and it will easily find a place in my personal top ten. i am only disappointed that this joker the best villain in a film since hannibal lecter will never be revealed to us again.  along the way we also get to know and grow attached to the other prisoners trapped inside shawshank. the movie flows perfectly from one scene to the next never feeling forced or losing your interest. the movie is mostly dialogue driven but there are some violent scenes which help convey the brutality of prison life. finally the final 30 minutes are perhaps the most satisfying in any movie. i do not want to spoil the ending for those who have never seen it but suffice to say the final act of the movie leaves you floored. both times that i saw it i was rooted to my seat long after the credits rolled just thinking about the brilliance of the ending and the entire movie as a whole. forrest gump and pulp fiction are both great movies highly entertaining. i particularly love pulp fiction  however it is a travesty that the shawshank redemption did not win best picture. it was certainly the best film of the year in my opinion arguably the best film of the decade and perhaps one of the finest movies ever made. the even bigger tragedy though is that while morgan freeman earned an oscar nomination for his great performance tim robbins turn as andy dufresne went without a nomination. robbins carries the film and his performance is truly one of the greatest i have ever seen. the bottom line is that the shawshank redmption is a perfect movie. it takes you in from the opening scene and doesnt let you go until long after it comes to a tremendous close. along the way it will make you think fear wonder and feel a number of other emotions. if you have not seen this movie waste no time  go rent it today and see why this is the highest ranked film on imdb.  
