the dark knight is second movie of christopher nolans batman trilogy and released in 2008 after three years from first movie batman begins. normally sequence movies cannot catch the same success with first one but the dark knight surpassed it and gone way beyond expectations. its first movie has 8.3 point on imdb and dark knight got 9.0 point and became 6th of top 250 imdb. all three movies are inspired by batman comics but it has some changes. in this version nolan had chosen to use the joker as an antagonist to batman. in whole movie we saw a sort of competition between batman and joker. joker tries to prove that everybody has a dark side even the nice ones and how insanity is close to people he says madness as you know is like gravity all it takes is a little push. when everything is getting worse joker manages to turn movies nicest and heroic man harvey dent into two-face which is also a fictional character in batman comics. addition to its well developed story its visual effects are amazing. although it lasts two and a half hours i did not want it to end even a second. actually the biggest reason i love this movie that i think it is a joker movie instead of batman. the first scene of the movie starts with the joker theme which is one of the soundtracks of the movie. i think it is a really good choice to makes audience tense and get ready to watch an action movie. then while jokers crew rob bank we get some information about joker. after the robbery he kills all of his men i believe that is a good way to introduce audience with his carelessness and mercilessness. he manages to escape from the bank by enter a school buses traffic and we meet his intelligence right there. after a few scenes later joker entered gangsters of gotham citys special meeting and when they about to kill him he puts a pencil on a table and says  i am going to make this pencil disappear when one of the body guard comes near to him he grab his head push to pencil then pencil disappears. i know loving this scene makes me a sort of masochist but if i had watched it in a horror movie i would not like it i like the way nolan build the conversation and the scene. later on at that scene joker offers to kill batman and if he kills they will give him their half of money. they say you are crazy and do not agree with him he leaves to them his card. i like this symbol very much because the card is the joker card of playing cards which we use in our daily life to play card game. on the other side batman just develops his equipments i think nolan make our expectations higher in this progress. i was really curious about what will happen when the two enemies meets. joker kills the people who inspired by batman and wears like him acts like him. joker hangs one of them and put a note on his fake batman costume  will the real batman please stand up . i really like the little tease in there there is a song by eminem the real slim shady he says the real slim shady please stand up and he is the real slim shady he calls for himself because there is a lot of people who tries to imitate him. joker does the same thing in movie he want real batman to take off his mask and show himself otherwise gotham will not be a peaceful city. i really like the way he treats him. he does not have a real purpose to do all his action or terror he just does these because he is insane. in other movies they generally give us a background about antagonist their life or why they are bad we know all things but in this movie joker does not have even a finger print history on governments database. we do not know even why he has scars on his face but in the movie he tells two different stories about it. the famous catch phrase why so serious comes in here. these stories have one thing in common actually it is about smiling. he leads chaos and he has always a smile on his face this is a good symbol to show his satisfaction from the situation he made. though he wears no heavy costume like batman wears he can handle with batman how does it possible he always uses batmans weakness. batman has ethics joker does not. in this movie batman obsesses with rachel and joker use this very intelligently and mercilessly. besides joker leaves clues about who is he going to kill next of course these are not ordinary citizens. he chooses a judge a commissioner and harvey dent. he sends even a message to the judge. when we see his message which is his card we understand that joker is going to do something. but the judge does not realize it. i like the irony in there. even police officers tell her to be careful and give her a letter which writes that where should she goes to be safe. as an answer to them the judge says that i am get used to these people and then she gets on her car. then she opens letter and it writes  up . the car explores and it scatters the joker card. this is one of my favorite scenes. he knows how he can leave his signature after accident happens. he also chooses people like him to make part of his crew. one of them is a schizoid and when harvey dent gets him he cannot tell anything logically about joker. they cannot reach joker due to the way he works.
