the dark knight is my favorite movie ever made partly because im a huge batman fan but also just because its simply put one of the best movies ever made. this is the sequel to the reasonably successful and marginally critically acclaimed batman begins which was a good start but hardly fantastic due to its at times slow pace and lack of all-star villains. the sequel on the other hand makes up for that tenfold with its masterful storytelling and amazing villains. in this story gotham is a better place than before batman with less mobsters and criminals on the streets but when a crazed criminal calling himself the joker heath ledger begins subjecting the citizens of gotham to his chaos and anarchy batman christian bale must step in. possibly the only way batman can stop this evil lunatic is with the help of lt james gordon gary oldman and gothams white knight district attorney harvey-dent aaron eckhart. the scene is complicated when the joker moves to corrupt the entire city including harvey dent and all hope could be lost. the movie is filled with classic catchphrases and scenes mainly thanks to the joker such as why so serious and lets put a smile on that face. the character the joker is one of if not the greatest villains in cinematic history because of his immense presence classic and thought provoking dialog and of course the oscar winning posthumous performance of the late great heath ledger. the character is the exact ying to batmans yang in every way and if there was ever going to be a villain to beat batman and go against his moral code it would the dark knights joker. speaking of heath ledger his acting is absolutely first class in this movie. ledger locked himself in hotel room for a month prior to shooting the dark knight so he could get the character right and boy did it work. he also designed the jokers creepy and menacing make- up and co-directed and directed a couple of scenes featuring the joker. this performance is one of the greatest by an actor for quite some time and will never be forgotten. other than heath ledger the acting in the movie is still really great with christian bale reprising his role as batman while still doing his gravely batman voice which i actually quite like. aaron eckhart plays a fantastic harvey dent and has good chemistry with maggie gyllenhaal who plays his love interest rachel. the directing by christopher nolan is magnificent giving the film a gritty and realistic feel while also keeping the audience caring about the characters. the way he used mostly practical effects for the movie also helped the movie along by making it stand out a bit from other blockbuster movies like the transformers movies which are just an orgy of cgi and loud noises. this movie on the other hand is subtle while also being a very strong and forceful movie by having strong themes and ways of conveying them. the story and the overall tone of the film is much more than just a comic movie its a dark and serious action/drama film. this is technically a comic book movie although it really doesnt have any supernatural themes or anything that really makes a movie a comic book movie like the avengers or spider-man. this movie could easily have happened in our world thats how believable the movie really is. to compare this movie to other comic book movies is unfair to comic book movie because this is no ordinary movie this is a fantastic masterpiece of film. although the highlight of the movie is the joker this is first and foremost a batman story and a damn good one. this film delves like no other into the mindset and psyche of batman and his moral code. batman will never kill anyone even his greatest enemy which can be a big advantage to his opponent but it gives him a mantra and code to live by. the joker pushes batman to the absolute limits like no other villain has before which is just another reason why its the greatest batman story of all time. the only problems with the movie are more nit-picking mistakes rather than actual problems with the movie. the mistakes are continuity errors with the color of the joker hair changing in the opening scene and his arm moving back and before around batmans arm between cuts in one scene. every movie makes mistakes and these are just two little annoying errors most people wont notice unless they see the movie as many times as i have. dark knight is a wonderfully awesome film with fantastic acting directing writing and is just about an all-round perfect in every way film. i do not say this about many films because most films have gaping plot holes or stupid characters but this film doesnt. i would recommend this movie to just about anyone except if youre a grandma maybe you wont like it so much. its the closest a movie has ever come to being perfect. i rate this movie a 10/10.  the most prominent one being gil bellows late as billy of ally mcbeal as tommy a fellow inmate of andys who suffers under the iron will of norton. if you havent seen this movie go and rent it now. you will not be disappointed. it is positively the best movie of the 90s and one of my top 3 of all time. this movie is a spectacle to move the mind soul and heart. 10/10 
