the dark knight is an absolute classic and is not only one of the best superhero/comic book films ever made but also one of the best sequels ever made. filled with powerful directionbrilliant acting performances and excellent actionthe dark knight is christopher nolan at his best and most powerful. set after the events in batman beginsthe dark knight now tells the story about how now batman/bruce waynechristian balehas to not only deal with the mobbut also has to deal with a psychotic criminal named the jokerheath ledgerwho wants the destroy gotham city and make the innocent corrupt. the dark knight is a powerful and unforgettable classic that came out month after heath ledgers tragic death which cast a shadow over the film and with or without ledger presence the dark knight is still an excellent film. with the dark knight christopher nolan has created an unforgettable cinematic experiencegiving viewers a bigger and larger film than batman begins because when you look at batman begins as great as it is you feel like nolan was taking a test drive with a car and trying to know the batman worldbut with the dark knight nolan does not a take a test and knows this world from the ground up. with tdk nolan gives viewers a true epic scope raising the superhero genre to another level and makes a complex film filled with tragedy and sadness. tdk while definitely a superhero/comic book film has much more in common with a crime drama because of gangsters and the mob always in the film and the cops and lawyers that are always trying to stop them and the joker while also dealing with money and corruption. you feel like you are watching a superhero film if it were directed by martin scorsese or michael mann because like the crime dramas of those two films tdk deals with many characters and themes such as the crimecorruption and moral ambiguity. in other words tdk has more in common with epic crime dramas like the godfathergoodfellascasinothe departed and heat than say the fantastic four films. nolan creates a world in tdk where there is a since of doom and dread all around where the city of gotham is being held hostage and just filled with tension and falling apart and waiting to explode in a shred of darkness. batman and the joker in this is a true story of good and evil with batman trying to defend and protect the citizens of gotham city and trying to bring some good into the city and does not killbut the joker is different because the joker is true evil that just wants to see gotham city burn and corrupt the innocent people of the city including batman himself. the joker believes that people in general are not good and can be brought down to his level of darkness. the film is battle but a complex one because batman asks himself this question:what can i do at all costs to stop the joker can batman do it the right way or could batman kill the joker and be brought down to the jokers level tdk is a chess game and also a cat and mouse game where batman is not only trying to save gotham but trying to beat the joker. the screenplay by christopher nolan and jonathan nolan is superb with dialog and scenes that are something william shakespere would write because the film is filled with sadness and darkness all over. although the film is long at 2 hours and 32 minutes the movie moves by so fast you would think that you were watching a 90 minute film than a two and half hour film. the action scenes in the film are masterful and are much more intense than in bb. the action is filled with great suspense and jaw-dropping visuals and will have you glued to the screen. the ending of the film lasts about 20-30 minutes and like i said before this film will have you glued to the screen but also on the edge of your seat leaving you wanting more. it is a greatsad and tragic conclusion that will leave asking questions and prepares viewers for the dark knight rises. the whole cast does great jobs in their roles. christian bale is excellent once again as batman/bruce wayne bringing depthtoughness and sadness to the role. the late heath ledger earned a best supporting actor oscar for his brilliant and terrifying performance as the joker. ledgers performance is scarymenacing and masterful making ledgers joker one of the greatest villains in movie history. aaron eckhart is great as harvey dentan idealistic lawyer. michael caine is great once again as alfredbruces butler. maggie gyllenhaal does a good job as rachelbruce and harveys love interest. gary oldman is fantastic once again as officer jim gordon. morgan freeman is great once again as lucius foxbatmans weapon maker. eric robertsmaronianthony michael hallmike engelrichie coasterchechencillian murphyscarecrowand nathan gamblejames gordan jr.give good performances as well. the direction by christopher nolan is masterful and brilliantwith nolan using great camera angles and giving the film a haunting and beautiful visual style and also does great job in the action scenes. great direction from nolan. the  by hans zimmer and james newton howard is excellentdark and intense and matches the gritty and grim tone of the film. amazing  by zimmer and howard. in final wordif you love batmanchristopher nolancomic book filmssuperhero films or films in generali highly suggest you see the dark knightone of the best sequels ever made and a true classic that you can watch again and again. highly recommended. 10/10.
