the dark knight is a superhero movie with a darker twist making it more interesting and thrilling than the other batman movies in the past. christopher nolans trilogy set a new premise for the comic book tale. the characters her created were more realistic and less cartoonish. the theme of dark knight is good vs. evil. we have several characters such as aaron eckharts harvey dent and maggie gyllenhaals rachel who are fighting the evil doers of gotham. while they are fighting through the law to clean up gotham we have chriatian bales character bruce wayne/batman who is working as a vigilante to clean up gotham as well. one of the most captivating characters of the movie is heath ledgers joker. in all the movies before we have never seen the joker played as such a psychotic manic as ledger portrayed him. the casting of this character was perfectly done and the execution was flawless. even though he was the villain he was captivating and drew you in from the first scene of him standing on that street corner with his back toward you. he always kept you guessing and you never knew what he might do next. since the theme of the film was darker the scenes are darker as well. even during the day time scenes are overcast and dark. there never seems to be any light in the city of gotham. the creators of the film used this specifically to emphasis the darkness that plagues the city and what the heroes are constantly facing. as the movie progresses we see that even the evil starts to have its effects on the good guys. the joker captures harvey and rachel and is playing the batman against the police force as to who should be saved. batman wants to save rachel because he loves her the police want to save harvey because he is one of their own. batman however ends up with harvey and saves him while rachel gets blown. when the scenario goes wrong and harvey spills the oil barrel he is drenched in gas when the explosion occurs as they are escaping. with harvey losing rachel and getting burned he turns from good to evil and seeks his own revenge for what has happened to those he loved. harvey becomes two face. the transition of harvey from good to evil is one of gothams greatest secrets and we see that its carried on into the dark knight rises. overall this movie is very well done and sets a precedents for superhero movies. we can see that no matter how old you are you can always renew your love for good vs evil depending on how its done. introducing the darker aspect to the beloved comic was a great accomplishment for christopher nolan and his complex vision brilliantly displayed by the actors on the screen.
