tarantino never fails to impress with this all time modern classic the film follows the lives of some very interesting characters opening with the bonny and clyde duo pumpkin and honey bunny. the film has nothing but everything to do with the duo as the film opens and closes with the two in toe some of the most rememberable one liners of the films contain the duo as they nock off an ordinary la diner. as the film progresses we are introduced to two new characters vincent vega john travolta and jules winnfield  samuel l jackson both hired guns en route to a hit. vincent seems ever the realist slow talking cool and confident jules the poetic religious man dog. the speeches between the two characters throughout the film are both realistic yet pointless pillow talk that gives the film a somewhat believable quality no matter how far fetched some of the stories may be tarantino has the nack of making them sound true by adding this banter between scenes almost acting as an air break or rest stop from the action and violence. later on we meet mia wallace uma thurman the wife of marsellus wallace ving rhames the kingpin of the tarantino underworld. uma is cool sexy and always something has to say. her mysterious entrance is made when vincent vega is asked by marsellu if he would take care of her for the night while he is out of town. this in its self is another story and another adventure in the film vincent takes her out for lunch at the well known but not so famous jack rabbit slims this scene again is one of the most iconic and talked about moments from the film. here we also also exposed to tarantinos rockabilly music taste which encompasses the film so well. bruce willis makes his way onto the screen in pulp fiction as a one hit ko boxerbutch coolidge. his story begins with the gold watch story this gold watch symbolises butchs drive through life as we learn that the watch has survived through many wars struggles and pains if a simple gold watch can make it this far so can butch. his drive through the film is to escape an accidental murder the result of a boxing match however many pitfalls await him and his girlfriend fabienne maria de medeiros just a light intro to the film and its colourful characters within but all in all a timeless classic and a must see for any film buff or anyone that watches films in this case i struggle to find anyone that doesnt have at least one good thing to say about this film as it contains all the qualities of a masterpiece to be talked about time and time again hard to believe this film is almost 20 years old
