talk about your school of hard knocks. in the shawshank redemption columbia r andy dufresne tim robbins a tall soft-spoken new england banker is convicted-wrong- ly-of killing his adulterous wife and her lover. its 1947 and andy having received a double life sentence is shipped off to shawshank state prison in maine a maximum-security fortress packed to the grimy gills with thieves rapists and murderers. how bad is life at shawshank so bad that when andy trudges off the bus along with a dozen other new inmates the veteran prisoners make wagers on wholl be the first to cry. so bad that andy finds a huge wriggly yellow maggot buried in his lunch. so bad that over the next two years he is systematically beaten and raped by the sisters a crew of leering renegade inmates who take special delight in tormenting their fellow prisoners. make no mistake: andy gets worked over-and so does the audience. but then good things have a way of happening to unfortunate movie characters. early in his stay andy makes the acquaintance of red morgan freeman a sly survivor who is serving a life sentence for murder and who acts as shawshanks one-man black market smuggling the prisoners anything they want-cigarettes reefer cards with naked ladies im a regular sears and roebuck he deadpans. as soon as andy bonds with red things start to  look up. he gets hold of a rock hammer so that he can sculpt an elegant chess set. he does the guards tax returns in exchange for perks like beer on a sunbaked afternoon. he expands the dusty neglected book room into the most comprehensive prison library in new england. set over a period of 20 years the passing decades are marked by andys pinup posters of rita hayworth then marilyn then raquel the shawshank redemption begins as a nightmare a postwar- new england midnight express but it doesnt take long to reveal its true feel-good colors. the movie is about survival triumph and a thing called hope. its about a hero who rises above the squalor because hes blessed-a saint in the muck. its midnight express goes gump. you need a certain craftsmanship to traffic in twin brands of manipulation- the exploitative and the sentimental-and theres no denying that frank darabont who wrote and directed the shawshank redemption its based on a short novel by stephen king knows just what hes doing. the moss-dark saturated images have a redolent sensuality
