synopsis bruce wayne/batman christian bale continues to eliminate crime in gotham city with the help of lt. jim gordon gary oldman and the new district attorney harvey dent aaron eckhart. the dark knight wants to finally get rid of organized crime for good and be free of their corruption. batman soon finds that a new psychopathic mastermind known as the joker heath ledger has taken over organized crime. the jokers plan is to terrify the citizens and throw the city into chaos and kill batman. batman takes the fight with the joker personal which makes him confront his own beliefs. the joker is the most dangerous criminal that batman has encountered and he will need all his strength and vigilance to defeat him. my comment this film just blew me away. christian bale is a natural as bruce wayne/batman and michael caine fits the part of alfred the trusted butler. heath ledgers performance as the sadistic joker was absolutely disturbing and scary yet simply amazing. i would not want to meet the joker in a dark alley and whatever you do dont ask him how he got his smile especially when he has a knife in his hand. ledgers performance has turned the joker into a new iconic movie villain image. between all the punches mayhem and explosions there is some good sinister dialog. the movie not only has a lot of action it also tells the story of the internal struggle that bruce wayne is having with being the batman hero. bruce wayne wants to be himself and maintain the difference between himself and batman. bruce must decide to follow the code or do what has to be done without affecting his own morals. the movie explores the literary themes of hero verses villain as well as order verses anarchy and the joker explains to batman that to have one you must have the other and because of that they will always be connected. the movie is long but it went by so fast. you will love the last 45 minutes because of the non-stop action with batman in his new sonic suit and his batpod. with all the explosions body count and the dark mood of the movie i dont think parents should take young children. warner bros. pictures run time 2:32 rated pg-1310/10
