when you look at imdbs top 250 you see many famous and ambitious films like star wars the godfather the lord of the rings and others. not saying that these movies are bad they are actually quite brilliant they were made famous because of the publicity and the abilities these films had in the time. star wars started the sci-fi age the godfather made people interested in the secret society of the mafia and lord of the rings brought life into the fantasy genre again. but what really made these sublime films so popular was the publicity and the fantastic special effects which costed certain amounts of money. in 1994 frank darabont decided to have a go on one of stephen kings novels not knowing what would happen. they made a film that is honest and that contains on the contrary to star wars etc. a vital lesson a meaning and a message to all who watch it. this movie is redefining cinema. no explosions. no heart-stopping excitement. no its pure poetry music and sublime acting. the overwhelming and intriguing story introduces banker andy dufresne played by tim robbins who was falsely convicted for a double life sentence in the heavily guarded establishment of shawshank prison. his life must go on and he makes friends with other inmates like red wonderfully acted out by morgan freeman and brooks hatlen james whitmore brings tears to your eyes. warden norton played immensely evil by bob gunton and captain hadley clancy brown dont make andys life comfortable in the prison but with andys unique skills he manages to win their attention and gratitude. this film has some terrific moments like the helicopter shot over the shawshank prison and the stunningly beautiful scene where andy locks himself up in the wardens office and plays mozart to all the inmates. morgan freemans raw voice makes this moment more powerful than any other moment in any other movie i ever saw. at the release of the film people criticised the film harshly and wasnt a big hit certainly not at the box-office. but when the film appeared in the stores it became an enormous hit. and until this day for over 4-5 years now i believe it stands on the second place in the top 250 one place away from the godfather. this is a film you have to see once in your life
