shawshank redemption gives the feel of a strong firm and amazing story that can move people while sitting down to watch it. the characters are memorable. morgan freeman as red will always be in my head. tim robbins and any dufrense is amazing as well. shawshank gives the audience a taste of a perfect movie. movies like this dont come often. movies come with strong stories but acting and flow of this story can mess it up. shawshank doesnt disappoint. the acting is superb and the flow of the story is unforgettable. based on the stephen king novel rita hayworth and the shawshank redemption id say this is one of the movies where the film triumphs over the novel. the film also brings a sense of humor which is a very good tool for films like these because if everything is serious its very possible that it might be killed. well people have their own opinion. one scene amazes me and probably is one of my favorite scenes in the film is when the prisoners are watching gilda and theyre all waiting for rita hayworth to do the thing with her hair. it still makes me laugh and pleased with the acting and reactions of the prisoner and the beauty of rita hayworth herself. shawshank redemption is a one-of-a-kind film where stories come in and the film enlarges the story and puts it into a whole new level. the excellent acting and a great adapted screenplay makes this movie one of the greatest films ever in history.  you get hooked in their mindless conversations and invest in their characters. the soundtrack will make you bob your head throughout the whole film and bobbing it hours after youve seen it. its safe to say it is brilliant and really suits the film perfectly and when listened to sounds like it was perfectly made for a specific scene in the film. this film quentin tarintino on the map as one of the directors to see because of the jazzy cool vibe his films have. the directing is good with great uses of one shots and experimenting with transitions and angles such as the angle in which john travolta and samuel l. jackson get their guns from the car boot. but the main star of the film is the writing. the writing is genius and flawlessly executed by the actors. you will be quoting this film a couple of years after you see it. if you pick any line from this film it will probably be a good one. basically this film is a masterpiece and defined a genre that many writers will try to do. 
