quite simply dark knight is the best superhero movie ever made ok kickass is the only competitor but strictly speaking it isnt a proper superhero movie so lets forget about that. batman is tough batman is loved batman is weak batman is hated. batman has human characteristics. batmans enemies have human characteristics. this is the first and main reason dark knight succeeds. it isnt just a superhero movie. its also a study of character of good and of dark and of perception of society. i mean it does this so well i sometimes think the superhero content is just a scapegoat for the deeper thought in the movie even though i know at the same that its not. secondly batman doesnt do anything too unbelievable. look at superman hes flying. look at spiderman hes got webs coming out of his palms. look at the hulk he can get massive when he is angry. thats all cool and entertaining but batman is imo the superhero whom we can connect to the closest because he doesnt have these abilities about him which are soooo unrealistic. so both his inner and outer character are human like which makes the movie so much more enjoyable. the action the action in dark knight is amazing batmans car is amazing the special effects are amazing it is a phenomenal piece of work crafting a movie where it looks and feels fantastic i wont talk much about heath ledgers portrayal of the joker. its definitely his best performance ever and what better time to have it just before his death peace be upon him. i hate a ball watching the guy act. hes just created an insanely unique persona. i loved it everything in dark knight works. its got so much novelty to it. its a rare piece of cinema where prima facie its for kids but ultimately adults will end up enjoying it much more. dark knight isnt for kids anyway they wont be able to comprehend the bigger picture in dark knight which is what makes this movie so special. its cool its original its awesome i cant believe how it wasnt nominated for a best picture. oscars were probably too stunned at how good a super hero movie could be. did i mention i also love gary oldman the guy plays a different person in every movie i can never tell its him
