pulp fiction is a masterpiece from start to finish. a couple of hard boiled stories are waved together by only such perfection as tarantino. now im not going to say that big q is my favorite director but there is no doubt that the man is a genius. just look at the script and just as in his other masterpiece reservoir dogs the scenes and scenarios are harshly mixed up in one big mess. as a director well hes good but not that very original with some exceptions like the pulp-dancesceen and the ending in dogs. his real magnificent lies in this adrenalin rush script. it is genius pulp fiction is my second favorite after star wars im not sure why i love that film but hey sue me and it cant be compared to the rest of my top-movies nor tarantinos others. from dusk till dawn is a big flat joke to this also natural born killers tarantinos story and probably true romance too. jackie brown is a good film but its one million floors down from this movie. the nearest so far is reservoir dogs. the direction of dogs was better than pulp but pulp fiction has got this screenplay that no other and i do mean not one has got. lets go on to... acting. well ill put it like this: a majority of the actors do their best roles ever here is my pulp fiction acting-guide: travolta: definitely his best role so far. his portrait of vince is a classic. its cool funny and you just smile by satisfaction while he slither around mrs.wallaces house. and the dancing-scene is also notable. here we see that travoltas dancing king age is still not over. jackson: its a hard choice but im pretty certain that this is his best performance ive seen. hes around everywhere so its tough but he tops. still its easier concidering the fact that his performance is the best in the movie the path of the ritcheus man is to be set on all sides... thurman: i have never been such a tremendous fan of uma thurman but this time were talking cool chick. it is a shame that shes only in like 1/5 of the movie. we should see more of her. keitel: no mr.wolf isnt his best. im rooting for mr.white or the priest in from dusk till dawn. i know its a crap movie but the role is good. roth: yeah mr.orange is better but this one is on a good 2nd place. rhames: his best role without a doubt. marcellus wallace were talking respect here. im gonna get medevil on your ass he is one tough bastard. his scene with willis was great and every other scene he was into in this great great movie. arquette: she isnt in this movie that much but it is by far her best performance. stoltz: eric stoltz is a great actor and i think every part he ever played is the best and im sorry that hes not in this one that much. willis: bruce willis might do his best performance and the most quality-role but i have a very hard time if ill ever try to forget john mcclane. this is his second best role. well lets not forget about eric roberts and quentin tarantino. or should we yes actually but lets try to focus on these two gentlemens too. ok roberts everybodys hate victim and the biggest c-actor since dolph lundgren. and tarantino might be a groovy director/writor but he actually is quite pale as an actor. pulp fiction has also got blood and violence. it is a strong foulmouth and shocking but also classic movie. if you really loved reservoir dogs... what are you waiting for i can guarantee yes i can make out a promise sue me if this is wrong that youll at least like this movie. also: great sound and cool soundtrack. i first saw this movie four years ago and it is still just as great. overall 10/10
