peter jacksons epic adaptation of lord of the rings reaches its pinnacle in return of the king. the stellar cast mind-blowing special effects and heartbreaking script are all present in the third movie which is not only the last of the lord of the rings films but the best. frodo elijah wood and sam sean astin are still following the treacherous gollum andy serkis on the path to mordor with the increasingly strained frodo unaware that gollum is sowing suspicion between the two best friends. by the time he realises his mistake hes been dragged into the lair of shelob a monstrous spider and then abducted by orcs who want the ring he carries. determined to find his friend sam heads into an orc citadel... meanwhile gandalf ian mckellen takes pippin billy boyd with him to minas tirith after the hobbit has a close encounter with sauron through a palantir. \not only is the city under siege but the steward denethor is slowly going insane even sending his one remaining son faramir david wenham on a suicide mission to reclaim a dead city. with minas tirith crumbling aragorns viggo mortensen only hope may to be summon an army of the dead who will only obey the king of gondor. but even the dead wont help him if frodo doesnt destroy the ring... the lord of the rings trilogy is one of those once-in-a-lifetime movie experiences. there has never been anything quite like it in movie history and there probably never will be again. it seems somehow fitting that the book that every other fantasy has to measure up to has now become a sweeping cinematic triumph that actually stays halfway loyal to the books. good things come to fans who wait i guess. peter jackson really outdoes himself. you know those battle scenes in two towers and fellowship of the ring with the swooping camera and thousands of orcs clashing with men on a gloomy battlefield in return of the king jackson surpasses that. theres everything from volcanic eruptions to an invasion of howling ghosts to the attack of the oliphaunts like elephants only bigger. each action scene a shattering ride and theres no guarantee that all the beloved characters will make it out alive. some of them dont. but if jackson manages the epic battles well he does an even better job with the gentler quieter moments. the action slows down and the characters take a moment to support and comfort each other. they cry they hug they think about home -- such as gandalf comforting the frightened pippin with a description of the afterlife. jackson and his fellow screenwriters fran walsh and phillippa boyens throw themselves into the semi-formal language of tolkiens world resculpting tolkiens words into equally rich movie dialogue. elijah wood gives an unparallelled performance as frodo baggins. frodos gradual deterioration is wrenching to watch and the climactic scene at mount doom displays just what the ring can do to even the pure-hearted hobbit. sean astin follows up with his powerful performance as sam who is increasingly the strong hobbit rather than the follower. the final scenes between these two outstanding actors are beautiful and understated. but all the supporting cast also give powerful performances -- boyd and dominic monaghan put their characters through some intense growing pains and the im going to take care of you scene is enough to bring tears to your eyes. mortensen gets more kingly every moment while ian mckellen balances action with grandfatherly wisdom. bernard hill has a quietly moving final scene while miranda otto makes the despairing eowyn a strong kick-butt heroine. perhaps the most striking thing about return of the king is the final fourth of the film. while the multiple endings may annoy some viewers it seems somehow right to gently let go of these characters rather than have a sudden splashy finale. and whether they have a happy or sad ending jackson never lets us forget that they all made sacrifices to battle sauron. return of the king brings the epic lord of the rings trilogy to a close and cements jacksons reputation as a master filmmaker. with the outstanding cast beautiful scripting and amazing direction this is the best of the lord films -- and thats saying something.  and hes been my another most favourite actor ever since lord of the rings is one of most commercially successful movies of all time also the most oscar-winning movie in history together with titanic and ben-hur. thank you lord for this film... 
