peter jackson was right: this is the best movie of the series - and that is saying something because the two towers was superb. the correct genre for the lord of the rings series is horror/fantasy and never before has horror or fantasy been attempted on such a grand scale. the scenery is stunning the action sequences spectacular the horror superbly done. there is some humour a perfectly blended music  and of course computer imaging without peer. the character of gollum/smeagol is one of the great achievements in cinema history and the battle scenes pure genius. need i say more: this is one of the cinemas true masterpieces a stunning finale to a superb series.  this isnt a film that feels improvised in any way. on some very odd occasions this can result in some lines feeling a little forced but the pay-off is massive as the script is quite simply genius in many ways. this great writing has created some excellent iconic characters. it doesnt do any harm either that the acting is top level throughout. well with the exception of tarantinos cameo that is _ба hes pretty terrible and should really never act. but otherwise its quality all the way with standout turns from samuel l. jackson john travolta bruce willis harvey keitel christopher walken and uma thurman. jackson probably steals the show with the character jules but travolta is very impressive and convincing as vincent vega _ба you really believe he is a pretty nasty bit of work under the charm. thurman and willis play typical film-noir characters namely the femme fatale and the boxer who throws the fight _ба both are excellent. while keitel and walken have cameo roles with the former as the very memorable mr wolf while the latter is in an extremely funny role as an ex-soldier who wore a watch up his butt. so whats it all about well the title says it all really because this is an unashamed bit of pulp fiction but a wonderfully original presentation of it. its influence is other movies such as italian poliziotteschi and american film noir with a huge post-modernist make-over. films specifically referenced include the italian connection a black and white gangster hit men are sent to sort a situation out and kiss me deadly a plot revolves around a suitcase that when opened has a mysterious glow. it is essentially a crime-comedy with a real focus on humour. this means that some of the strong violence is played simultaneously realistically but also for comic effect. while the staggered time-line is constructed for maximum impact. it is for example a pretty rare thing for a film to kill off a character vincent and then go back in time a little to watch his exploits in another escapade. we know he is doomed but cant help but completely forget this fact. its one of many reasons that this film stands out. one of the very best of the 90s and tarantinos masterpiece. 
