overall i am disappointed though not surprised by the negative criticism of this movie. indeed this criticism exceeds the offering of alternative viewpoints and the expression of other cinematic possibilities and sinks into the realm of bitter invective. so many armchair critics are currently competing with avid tolkien jackson and movie fans alike in order to espouse the true value of peter jacksons landmark movie trilogy. for it is a landmark event in cinema history based on its sheer size and careful attention praise and evisceration apart. the issue that greatly irritates me and pushes me to write is that many of the negative reviewers on this website have such limited room in their imagination that they cannot conceive of a world outside their own narrow framework. i find that a most sad reality in light of the legacy of tolkien jackson and all good story-tellers -- to create to engender and to nourish the growth of any and all imaginative ventures. the problem with imagination is that it is an individual event a unique subjective experience that a single person experiences completely alone. those who enter into the realm of art fiction fantasy and any degree of story-telling agree willingly or no to take that personal act of creation and primal nature and share it with the community of human beings each of whom has his or her own imaginative context. it is a bold act of sacrifice self-confidence and faith spiritual one could argue to thrust the contents of ones subjective reality into to borrow from douglas adams the whole sort of general mish mash. people who do so deserve respect for the mere creative act the ability to foist forward what they believe is true. from homer to bill oreilly this concept of personal creation what tolkien called sub-creation is the essence of modern human existence and we owe it to each other to respect the right to creation history has granted us. therefore in defense of both tolkien whom some on this website have maligned and jackson whom many have maligned i forward that both are imaginative creators in their own right with different and completely acceptable offerings to the world. those who cannot tolerate either for mediocre writing or atrocious film-making should offer forth their literary or cinematic offspring instead of cunningly-worded diatribes of their deep dissatisfaction with all that does not conform to their inner reality. then we few who believe in and trust the creative ability of all will be able to see how those critical inner realities so authoritative in exposition match up with the rest of our perceptions. tolkien was an enormously talented intelligent and imaginative man one whose stories though unpolished by experience still managed to attract a worldwide audience and devoted following with their luster. jacksons movies took the sheen and inherent value of tolkiens stories and placed it in a visual medium a place where fans of lotr could witness and love the events and people they held so dear. of course tolkiens story is imperfect
