often said to be one of the best films of all time i cant help but agree. no matter how many times i watch this over i feel like it never bores me and i am always captivated in a way that ive never felt with any other film before. the shawshank redemption is a tale of hope courage and betrayal seen through the eyes of prison inmates andy played by tim robbins and older convict red portrayed by morgan freeman in an oscar nominated performance. the film is set over 19 years in shawshank prison and depicts the life of andy dufresne a hotshot banker and his struggle with keeping his mind and his sanity whilst serving time for a crime he didnt commit. as andy has to put up with harassment distress and affliction throughout the duration of his time at the prison the film illustrates a tale of eternal hope. as time slowly passes in the prison hes assisted by an older inmate by the name of red redding morgan freeman a black marketer who is known to locate certain things from time to time. as the years pass by andys friendship with red grows and so do the hardships they have to overcome. the film itself has touched me in many ways it shows me just what people can do when they have a little faith and keep incessant hope no matter what. obviously stephen kings greatest and most memorable big screen interpretation one of which he is almost certainly proud of. the movie is a timeless classic that speaks to me and probably a lot of others on so many levels providing a near perfect film with a great plot line and representing a storyline with an even better message. tim robbins delivers an enthralling performance as the titular character one that certainly stands out throughout the film whereas morgan freemans interpretation of fellow convict red is just as captivating earning him recognition from the academy but not his fellow co-star robbins obviously yet another oscar snub. overall the shawshank redemption speaks out to its audience as it shows a tale of perseverance and perpetual hope when in the midst of the struggles in life. the film itself is possibly my favourite of all time and manages to keep my attention on the 10th time of watching it. a must-see for anyone who has a good taste in films and is looking for a movie that will change their perspective on life and give them the hope to pull through in the darkest of times.
