you cant get more from a motion picture morgan freeman undoubtedly is a great actor and finding him as supporting actor in movies has been a culture in the modern cinema. the movie have a great plot the director did a great job concentration on the story have a solid field and the scope to keep you sticking to your chair the movie have such a dialogue delivery that you have to pause if you even blink your eye. shawshank redemption as the title is tempting so is the movie the star cast is great the performance cant get better and criticizing the all the rules and regulations of the society challenging the so many other other things the movie becomes a legend to the todays actors enough war movies enough jail breaks you have seen in movies but its all inspiring all contributing to the society and the diamond to the industry and the milestone for the coming actors is this. tim robbins performance is great as he lived the role and the eye stretcher movie shawshank redemption.  so it comes down to the hobbits frodo and sam to bear the burden of the ring and deal with the treachery of gollum. after a long journey they finally arrive in the dangerous lands of mordor seeking to destroy the one ring in the place it was created the volcanic fires of mount doom.notably it won all eleven academy awards for which it was nominated an oscar record and tied for largest number of awards won with ben-hur and titanic. instead of starting just where the previous film left off however it goes far back in time to the moment the tormented creature gollum first came to possess the one ring. in this flashback actor andy serkis who voiced gollum and performed his movements onset prior to the final cgi effects finally gets to appear on screen portraying gollums former self sm’©agol. this disturbing scene serves as a potent reminder that the ring seeks to corrupt even the well-intentioned frodo who is increasingly struggling with the dark power of the ring himself. thus the film returns to the present following frodo sam and gollum as they journey ever closer to the foreboding land of mordor. they pass by the terrifying dark city of minas morgul watching as the dreadful army of the witch king sets out for the human strongholds in gondor and move on to the rocky stairs to cirith ungol where an even darker enemy lies in wait. meanwhile the rest of the fellowship reunites in rohan having defeated the wizard saruman on two different fronts at helms deep and isengard. they are not together for long though since the hobbit pippin gets into trouble making it necessary for him and gandalf to hastily depart for minas tirith capital of gondor. once there they find the steward of gondor denethor in an unstable mental state and the city preparing for battle against the amassing forces of sauron. denethor unwisely sends his only remaining son faramir back into bloody battle to prove himself. he returns nearly dead sending denethor over the edge of sanity.in another realm elf arwen begins her journey to immortal life in the grey havens on her way to leave middle-earth -- and aragorn -- forever but has a vision that causes her to once again reconsider her decision. back in rohan the men are preparing to ride to gondors aide. ’_owyn desperately wants to join the men in battle but her uncle king th’©oden orders her to stay and defend rohan if necessary. the hobbit merry also desires to ride with the men but is denied due to his small size and inexperience. aragorn is met there by the elf elrond who brings him the re-forged sword that was broken in the ancient battle with sauron and urges him to take a different route to gondor. heeding elronds advice aragorn along with elf legolas and dwarf gimli takes a cavernous path through the mountains where they meet ghoulish ghosts who betrayed aragorns ancestors and are doomed to eternal unrest unless they fulfill their broken oaths by aiding him. all but frodo sam and gollum will meet on the massive battlefield of the pelennor before the gates of minas tirith. the former three instead engage in a battle of wills between each other and the one ring as they head toward the fires of mount doom to destroy it. the thrilling conclusion to what has become the film event of our time - - the definitive screen fantasy -- features more spellbinding moments bigger battles more emotion and more poetry than the terrific first two films in the trilogy.it is visually stunning as it pops your eyes excites your senses and brings you in as close as a whisper for scenes of startling emotion.jackson boldly and faithfully brought j.r.r. tolkiens world to life as hes created the most epic and sweeping fantasy adventure of all time as evidenced in this third film.aside from thatthe movie is great at all levels including the brilliance of the cast.standing out amid an excellent cast is elijah wood stymied by tweeness in the earlier films but here convincingly developing the character of frodo as the embodiment of valor and self-sacrifice.aside from thatit provides the viewer a great tale of heroes bonded together by friendship and spectacular themes about very special friendship between hobbits elijah woods frodo and sean astins sam that touches us most of all.this is a masterpiece of filmmaking. 
