when i saw that the shawshank redemption was #1 on the top 250 movies of all time i thought yea i could understand that. i dont necessarily agree that its absolutely the best but it is so good that it makes sense that a forum of popular consensus for film rankings would rank it at the top. it is the story of andy dufresne played by tim robbins and his time at shawshank prison. it is a perspective of what it is to be human and to have hope for the future even in the face of insurmountable adversity. its funny because i dont really think that any one particular thing stands out as spectacular. the performances are very good but nothing really noteworthy. the characters all serve the story beautifully but none of them really stand out from the others. frank darabont is great the shots are exactly what they should be. almost the entire film is shot at the prison adding to the feeling of isolation and routine. and yet we are captivated from the outset. morgan freeman could read a sears catalogue and id pay to hear it his narration breathes life into every scene that its spoken over. the real beauty of this film is its story mostly about andy and red robbins and freeman but its the way that each character contributes symbiotically to the development of the story that is the absolute mastery. stephen kings novella rita hayworth and the shawshank redemption was the short story that was used as the basis for the film and it serves as evidence that king is not just a master of horror but a true literary genius. sure he doesnt use as many fifty cent words as histories other great masters but does anyone tell as good a story king always gives his writing such distinct atmosphere and energy that you cant help but get swept away. the shawshank redemption is no different. if there is a film by which other films should be judged this is as good as it can get. powerful engaging visceral despairing a masterfully woven dialogue of what it means to be human. its one of those journeys of the human spirit that just makes you feel happy to be alive. an amazing story translated beautifully to the screen. a masterpiece 10/10.
