much too often these days superlatives are thrown around to describe the greatness of movies and music. in this case any superlative used is an understatement. this is unlike anything that has ever been made and probably ever will be made. few films i have seen can stir as many emotions as effectively as rotk. after more than three hours the film still leaves the audience wanting more. if there is any justice rotk would sweep every awards ceremony in existence. combined with fellowship and two towers the unprecedented trilogy helmed by peter jackson towers over any achievement in the medium in scope character and impact. the bar has been raised and the standard has been surpassed. motion pictures will never be the same.  and as well dont spend ever hour of the day sitting at home sharpening their knives. although the sopranos later perfected and brought reasoning to this fact making their characters part of society and disguising themselves as members pulp fiction places them within the daily activities of an odd group distinguishes them from ordinary civilians and keeps them afloat through simplistic dialogue demonstrating the needs and wants of a first world audience  such as relationships religion or something as simple as what to eat for breakfast  and i dont know about you but i was thoroughly disappointed when fabienne had to get buttermilk pancakes instead of blueberry. it feels like a clichթ to say it but for a long time pulp fiction was my favorite film. it was as influential to me in 2010 as it was to the people who first saw it in the mid-90s. i could go on for hours discussing the unconventional style of chronology the homages to such films as the bodyguard : jules famous ezekiel 25:17 biblical quote is shown within the films opening crawl on the waterfront : bruce willis character butchs resemblance to marlon brandos character through a self-dilemma or the aristocats : from the famous twist-dance contest where uma thurman bases her moves from that of the duchess character in the 1970 disney animation. yet what makes the film so unique is not the homages to films or magazines mainstream audiences wouldnt recognize nor the bleak humor but through these characters and their reflections through an array of bizarre and oddly connected events. i continue to adore this film for several rationales but to me the people were always the most specific. they were original just like the film and shaped the american audience into viewers ready to find enjoyment from extraordinary people discussing foot massages and european hamburgers for several minutes of screen time. quentin tarantino... you are a genius
