minor spoilers but only if you havent read the book. some of the more awe inspiring moments for me were the rohirim riding into battle at gondor faramir leading his troops into osgillioth against impossible odds the moment pippin becomes a man so to speak and the whole of minas tirith bowing down to four halflings who might earlier have been dismissed as insignificant... its moments like these that allow you to forgive the hollywood showboating of orlando bloom on the battlefield and other such excesses.  watch it and just go along with it. if you feel inclined to look up how it played out on the internet go ahead or if you want to give it a rewatch that is fine too. viewing multiple clips for a second time i think i finally understand it more but a lot of questions youll still be asking after repeated viewings. one of the most famous questions is whats in the briefcase that is recovered by vega and winnfield in the early scenes of the film. im sure when writing the film tarantino himself didnt know what he wanted to put in the briefcase. im also sure he didnt think it would blow up into such a debacle on the message boards and through word of mouth. what truly makes pulp fiction worthwhile is the genius dialog. tarantino cranks out the best script possible combined with enough wit and violence to please the most demanding and picky action-film fan. one moment the two are discussing why a quarter pounder with cheese from mcdonalds is called a royale with cheese in france. next they are threatening violence if a victim asks the question what again. why do i not condone constant swearing and gratuitous violence in other films but for some reason award a perfect  to a film that is made up of it because pulp fiction shows how it should be done. it depicts realistic situations handled intelligently and with wit and soul. it doesnt utilize them for the purpose of being monotonous or dreary but to advance an already crafty storyline. the character are under such stress it only makes sense that they are constantly shouting four letter words. is it necessary not really. but pulp fiction isnt just about swearing. it proves that true cinema still exists and that even a story that appears choppy and inconsistent on paper can still produce one of the best films of the decade. starring: john travolta samuel l. jackson uma thurman harvey keitel tim roth amanda plummer maria de medeiros ving rhames eric stoltz rosanna arquette christopher walken bruce willis and quentin tarantino. directed by: quentin tarantino. 
