mild spoilers ahead. like many people i had very high expectations when i walked into the theater today but unlike some people whos reviews ive read here i wasnt disappointed. i loved this film. sure there are things that are bothering like they way certain characters are changed as in the case of faramir and denethor - and theoden as well in my opinion or completely left out as in the case of saruman and gr’_ma. but there is so much beauty in this film which makes up for it. the musical  is amazing. someone here loathed howard shore for writing pompous and sentimental music - i dont understand it. this is the most wonderful soundtrack i have ever heard except for maybe the one in fellowship of the ring. if this is not rewarded with an oscar in february something is very very wrong. during the first two movies i was always bothered by the fact that merry and pippin were turned into comic figures simply there to lighten up serious moments. in this movie billy boyd and dominic monaghan finally get to work a little more on their characters - characters which i love. and they do it so well. i have to admit that my absolute favourite moment in the movie was pippin singing before denethor while the battle goes on outside. it was a beautiful and very strong scene. does anyone think that the academy will remember billy boyd when its time for the oscars but there were things that were left out that should not have been mainly in the ending. there were no explanations to how faramir eowyn or merry were suddenly healed there was nothing with pippin being in minas tirith before the battle and as i said saruman and gr’_ma were left out. not good. one can only hope there will be more of this in the extended version of the dvd. im very much looking forward to it  legolas the elf  gimli the dwarf  aragorn and boromir both men  and three other hobbits sam merry and pippin. this unlikely alliance comes together in a spirit of acceptance and tolerance to fight the satanic sauron and his devilish henchmen. those of us who do not consider ourselves fans of fantasy initially may have thought to dismiss the movies as far-fetched overblown silliness. it was hard to imagine the films as relevant or transcending their genre. but many of us have come around to another point of view: the films tell a classic story that espouses the virtues of love hard work and compassion and decries greed deceit and abuse of power in a mighty struggle against temptation and the corrupting forces of power. the storys message about conserving natural resources has profound significance for our times as does the notion of taking up arms against an evil tyrant and the importance of overcoming prejudice to work toward a common goal of peace. ironically these simple messages were massively complicated to pull off requiring a budget of nearly $300 million a crew of 26000 extras and a production team of 2400 which included medieval weapons designers stone sculptors linguists blacksmiths and model builders. bringing to life such a wide-ranging story with technical proficiency and visual dazzle is an unprecedented achievement one that likely will define jackson much as george lucas is forever linked to the star wars movies he directed. though the acting ensemble is strong the movie does not belong to any one of them. while elijah wood capably carries off frodos transition from boy to man his is not the most indelible performance. gollum voiced by and physically patterned after the movements of british actor andy serkis is the most realistic other-worldly character since e.t. and similarly will remain etched in moviegoers collective memories. ian mckellens gandalf has a larger role in the third film morphing from wizard/prophet to army general and one cannot imagine the role played by anyone else. viggo mortensens principled aragorn is the king to whom the third films title refers. a key character is the landscape of middle-earth. the movies feel mythical but look historical. in the third installment for example minas tirith a seven-tiered city of kings looks european byzantine and fantastical at the same time. there is a bittersweet quality in the trilogys coming to an end _—” even if the return of the king seems ready to conclude at least three times before the movie finally comes to a rather anticlimactic close. many moviegoers like jackson and the cast _—” who grew quite close during filming _—” may understand and even appreciate the lingering goodbye. and while s of film goers clamor to see the final installment no one is eager for the journey to end. jacksons masterpiece will no doubt have a long life on dvd and be the subject of countless revivals over the years. the directors next project is a remake of king kong which seems a bit like hiring michelangelo to paint an office building. though if anyone can make something out of that tired vehicle jackson can. should jackson sign on to make the hobbit the rings finale might feel more like a temporary till we meet again than a formal goodbye. 
