magnificent. this is one word and it does the film the justice it deserves. its a triumph on so many fronts technical and creative or both at the same time. great story innovative and clever direction super editing high quality acting stirring soundtrack composition nigh on flawless special effects well drilled stunt performers wonderfully authentic prop design. hell i could go on all day there are so many elements here that are excellent i find it hard to spot and point out the flaws. maybe as well the fact that the film has left me speechless on three occasions. fundamentally though one could strip away the fantasy elements the huge battles and dazzling effects and youd still be left with a fine film. why well because the themes it deals with are so affecting and beautifully written and acted that there would still be a gripping humane drama to play out. the corrupting lure of power against the strength of friendship. as the ring takes hold of frodo he could be lost to the evil that has taken the pitiable smeagol but through courage and willpower from both himself and sam his character triumphs. it is to the credit of elijah wood and sean astin that they convey this spirit so well on screen. it is also to the credit of andy serkis and the nice chaps at weta digital that smeagol/gollum is so compelling. he must be one of the most complexly deceptive characters to have ever been written about. sweet and innocent but brutally cold and calculating. a true enigma of a person. this couldve gone wrong but we are at once disgusted and pitying of gollum frightened by his treachery but understanding of frodos continued trust in him. he is the dark heart of the film. the other cast members also do fine job bringing the heart and emotion of tolkiens text to the screen. there is tragedy and heroism in equal measure through to the films lump in throat climax. when you have these elements welded to some of the most stirring and powerful battle sequences put to celluloid picture thousands of horse riding warriors riding to battle tens of thousands of orcs and assorted monsters then you have a genuine classic. i can safely say this film will be loved for years to come and will sit well next to the likes of casablanca. ten out of ten. i would give it more if that were possible
