loved this movie..im a big fan of heath ledger from his 10 things i hate about you days and will always and forever remain a fan of his acting the plot was great every actor/actress were phenomenal..especially maggie g. as rachel. so yeah maybe the batman didnt have to make his voice so deep but he definitely had to change it to separate himself from bruce wayne..i thought it was fitting. so..to the poster mozared below me to answer your questions why did dent turn bad and why didnt he kill the joker when he had the chance...dent believed in fairness his entire life thats what he lived by...when things started to become unfair in his eyes such as his love being killed and his current predicament to him the only fairness that was left is flipping his coin. when he flipped it with the joker he landed on heads..the joker lives same with maroni in the car scene and ramirez. even if it causes chaos like when you stated...him turning bad. the joker as well convinces him that chaos is fair as well as convincing him hethe joker was locked up at the time so dent needs to go after the people who actually put him and rachel in the warehouse. it was fairness in a sick way if you will. basically dent is just like batman..he has rules he lives by. we all know what batmans was and dents rule was fairness. now why does the joker have so many loyal men well its simple these men arent working with a full stack of cards and actually in the original series his men came from an asylum called akhram...crazies bi-polar schizophrenics you name it. he was able to lure them to do bad things for him it wouldnt be that hard when theyre not well to begin with...as you saw with the guy dent interrogated in the alley..batman explained the joker feeds off these men. and lastly why is the joker able to get around with explosives and no one noticing him....well he has too many people working for him that he bribes with money as we saw and you definitely dont think he set those traps up himself do you plus theyre cheap.
