lord of the rings: the return of the king is no doubt the best movie ive seen. the film captures you instantly up to the words the end appearing on the screen. the return of the king is nothing short of excitement. for all those who doesnt know what the lord of the rings is about im thinking everybody does either through the books or the movies heres a brief summary: just over 50 year ago j.r.r. tolkien published a tale about a long dangerous quest to destroy 1 ring. this tale is split into 3 novels the fellowship of the rings the two towers and the return of the king. this tale is called the lord of the rings. nearly 50 years after the novels were published peter jackson tells the tale in another way by bringing it to life onto the big screen. this tale is about 9 peoples quest to destroy one magic ring and return peace to middle-earth. if this one ring goes back to its maker the evil sauron the world will be under his control bringing death and misery everywhere. the only way to destroy this powerful ring is to cast it into the fires of mount doom where it was made. only one hobbit could resist the temptation to keep the ring and this job was given to a hobbit named frodo baggins. to help him along the way a fellowship of nine people were brought together. in it was a wizard 2 men an elf a dwarf and three other hobbits. together they set out for mordor where mount doom is situated. getting to mordor is not as easy as it sounds. on the way theyll have to battle orcs uruk-hais giant spiders and other results of tolkiens fascinating imagination. the return of the king is the last addition to this vast trilogy. peter jackson does a great job in interpreting tolkiens thoughts and feelings into a film. watching the movies is just like reading the books themselves. if it was only the movies it wouldnt have made such an impact on the public. the music in all three films practically takes you on your very own journey and the acting from the actors was also very impressive. if anything was missing from these movies they just wouldnt have been such a success. peter jackson has done this to perfection. overall this is a must-watch movie. plenty of action and special effects not to mention a very heart warming ending to the trilogy. ill just say one more thing dont criticise anything until you have saw heard or done it especially lord of the rings.
