when i first saw the shawshank redemption i was in a movie theater on a week night at around 11pm. i had gotten out of work from working the evening shift. i was tired and just wanted a little amusement. this was at a time after shawshank had been released but got little attention. i had heard some oscar buzz so my curiosity got the better of me. i half reluctantly chose to watch it. that night i was not prepared to be blown away. i didnt see a movie i was transported by a story. i was instantly transcended into realizing why films should be made to begin with. i wasnt just entertained i was emotionally moved and intellectually bamboozled in the most endearing manner. if this film remains on imdbs number one spot for a long time to come its well deserves it. to me personally the shawshank redemption is a testament as to why the 90s were an interesting decade but more than that why a film can become an experience and gain instant classic status. there are two simple rules you should follow prior to watching t s r: one if you havent seen it dont let any one who has seen it tell you anything about its plot dont listen to a word caus they might ruin it for you. two make arrangements not to be interrupted when watching the film  the two towers doesnt match the opening movie or the climax and the best film of the decade. the return of the king is mind blowing. most seeing the movie know the plot as they have read tolkeins mighty opus. but if you have missed the news christopher lees character doesnt appear. no saruman. make sense of it and sarumans death at the hands or wraps of the worm in the book. battle of pelennor fields is a masterwork. far better than the battle scenes in russel crowes robin hood which i saw this week. scott uses flesh and blood and a mass of special effects beats him off the screen created in this monster of a movie. the bearers of the ring make the miserable ascent to their final destination to dispose of it. sauron being stuck as a giant burning eye the whole time sort of limits what he can do. peter jackson solves that with a dreamlike moment of frodos final struggle. peter jackson is clearly a genius in his ability to allow actors to act and giving them space to do so. lord of the rings would have been so much lesser had he mashed the actors in special effects and monsters like george lucas does. the biggest applause is for new zealands landscape. it is the land of lord of the rings. 
