lets open this review with the fact that batman is the best superhero ever with no other even coming close to his levels. so when a sequel is made for an unforgettable movie like batman begins expectations are extremely high. i think that if you could describe this movie in a few words it would be 152 minutes of pure awesomeness. christopher nolan probably created the best ever comic book adaptation of a movie. the movie itself has been adapted in a much more realistic fashion than the comic book series. first of all this movie is perfect for people who like punches drama shooting and explosions. the movie has a complicated plot that keeps your eyes glued to the screen. its anything but corny since a few important characters die and the ending isnt happy but its flawless. christian bale has proved himself one again as an amazing actor. michael cane portrays alfred pennyworth makes you fall in love with batmans loyal butler. now anyone that has seen the movie and is reading this review is probably wondering why i havent mentioned the main reason why this movie is flawless. and yes there is one main reason: heath ledger. heath ledger portrayed batmans arch nemesis in this movie: the joker. now anyone who has a clue in comic books knows that the joker is incredible. heath ledgers acting in this movie has turned the joker into a legend. i have never seen such perfect and realistic acting than the portrayal of the joker in this movie. the joker is portrayed in a much more mature fashion than the comic books and thats why it was so good. its simply impossible to describe him: hes bold insane smart twisted and hes so awesome in this film that at some points you love him even more than batman. if i havent mentioned it by now this is without a doubt the best movie i have seen.those who come with high expectations after seeing batman begins will not be disappointed. i advise that no one under the age of 11 watches this movie as two-faces appearance is rather frightening and the film contains intense action.
