let me start out by saying that this is one of my personal all time favorites and as such i may be a bit bias whole reviewing it. on the other hand theres a reason its a personal favorite. the movie revolves around the wrongly imprisonment of andy dufrane played by tim robbins for the murder of his wife. the story focuses on andys life in prison relationships with other inmates particularly with red played perfectly by morgan freeman and passion for life and freedom. i recently had an argument with one of them regarding this movie. he claimed it was too plain to be considered so great  in another story he is with his partner jules winnfield samuel l. jackson trying to transmit a message to a group of guys who owns money to marcellus wallace  in another story he only makes an appearance in which is actually the story of butch coolidge bruce willis a fighter who works marcellus wallace which after a fight which was supposed to lose he tries to flee the country with his french girlfriend fabienne maria de medeiros. many other characters form the movie mixing in stories each one with a different theme but all have something alike long dialogs. the film features unprecedented writing addresses several topics some do not have anything to do with the stories and the situations of the characters but the way they are written in a way so simple and interesting is really from a true master on writing screenplays that is quentin tarantino. despite having had help from roger avary on the screenplay this time but all the ideas are still from tarantinos mind keeping his good dark-humor and his bloody fun violence. the film with so many stories tarantino mixes the different chapters leaving them out of order. not to leave more confused but to leave the film more entertaining and extremely interesting with the insane dialogs between characters. a legendary film excellent performances perfect writing with interesting stories covering various topics and all very entertaining. undoubtedly the best tarantino film a classic and a legendary masterpiece.
