ive read a lot of the comments here. ive never voted for this movie once but now im going to give it what it deserves. and i am going to try to describe why a lot of shawshank fans are voting this the best movie ever. the reasons that this movie is great are: it has incredible acting incredible story-telling incredible pace incredible writing and dialogue incredible imagery and an incredible twist and ending. the godfather also has these qualities. but the reason shawshank is better is because it literally is potentially life-changing. people watch shawshank and someone truly may believe in hope. they may truly believe their lives will get better. they may truly believe others lives can be made better. its message is not only told but it is felt and oft times absorbed. for men for women for old for young for everyone. it is a masterpiece. what other movie affects people in this way you dont get that with the godfather. gf is a great film but you just come out of it saying wow that was one of the best films ive ever seen. with shawshank you say more than that. you feel more than that. you will never see another like it. and the mere perfection of this movie by a novice director will frustrate experienced and future directors forever.  its an epic in the class of the ten commandments or gone with the wind but with lots more fighting. and what fighting it is the combat scenes capture the full intensity and brutality of medieval warfare of pounding clubs and maces bodies impaled with spears and arrows or crushed beneath catapult stones within the bounds of pg-13. yet theres also is the precision even beauty of aragorns swordsmanship and legeloss skill with the bow their ability to fell an enemy with every swing of the sword or release of an arrow. and then theres the sheer scale of it all. the climactic battle of pelenor fields is the largest ever filmed with dozens of siege engines more than two-hundred thousand orcs and a charge by six thousand horsemen. there are few sights that can surpass six thousand armored cavalrymen at full charge but a counter charge by a line of mumukhiel is surely one of them. add the piercing shrieks of fell beasts and an army of vengeful dead and you have perhaps the greatest spectacle ever to grace the screen. this may seem hyperbole or even heretical but cecil b. demile has nothing on peter jackson. im also highly impressed with the effects and technical aspects of this movie. the set pieces are among the largest and grandest ive seen and the models have a nearly unprecedented attention to detail. and there are thousands of weapons orc masks and suits of armor all beautifully _ба or gruesomely- done. few projects can equal this one in the costume and make-up departments. new zealands weta workshop might just be the new industrial light and magic. now obviously all this was already present in the original version. so you may ask if this new version is worth paying to see especially if you already have the original. my answer: absolutely. theres more humor exemplified by a side-splitting drinking contest and more character development especially with faramir and denathor. and theres lots more action including gandalfs encounter with the witch king a longer fight scene with gollum and far more material with the dead men of dun-harrow. jackson has also included important vignettes from the book like the house of healing scene and negotiations with the mouth of sauron. and i particularly enjoyed christopher lees death scene near the beginning. bottom line lord of the rings return of the king is one of the grandest most exciting and most inspiring movies youll ever witness. try as i might i can find no fault with it. you owe it to yourself to see this movie especially in its new and improved state. 
