ive never seen a series like this. a trilogy of movies created with such love and care and utter perfection of craft that you cant help but walk away and wonder how did peter jackson make this possible i have always loved the original star wars and indiana jones series for their epic storytelling and just for just fitting in as a great moment in cinema. this should be will be remembered with as much revered fondness for generations to come. they do not make films like these anymore. as a stand alone film it picks up immediately where two towers ends so brush up before seeing it. ive read the books and the anticipation of seeing some of the more profound moments in this film made me kind of view it with a rushed sense of perspective. i wanted to make sure everything in this film was done right. and when it happened it was. i will need to see this again to enjoy everything on a more casual level. the cast comes through once more. the musical  retains its beauty elegance and power. the special effects notably gollum again are nothing less than breathtaking and simply move the story along. the battles are monumentally huge and exciting. there are some liberties taken with the story especially during the end with the homecoming and yet everything that needed to be covered regarding the main characters was handled. after the greatest moment of the series resolves itself the story provided a breather. and gives a good-bye to friends seen on screen for the last three years. it was truly a bittersweet feeling in realizing that there will be no rings movie in 2004. i will miss this talented group of actors. as with the first two the film is very long but goes by without you ever truly realizing it. this film is so much more than a simple fantasy epic. its a story about strength of character friendship loyalty and love. and while every member of the fellowship has their part to play i finally understood why some critics have said this series is a story about sam. its his unwavering resolve that led the quest to its victory. sean astin is a true credit for adding the inspirational heart to this epic. as as far as the ending goes they ended it the way that it had to be ended. jackson ended this film the way it should have been. i will miss looking forward to a new rings movie but these movies provide hope that high-quality films can still be made without special effects taking over a story bathroom humor or a top 40 soundtrack. george lucas could learn a lot from these films about how not to alienate the fan base. each film has earned a 10 from me for the last two years which for me to give is a rarity. this one however is as equally deserving as its two predecessors. the academy had better not look over this film for best picture of 2003. to do so would be greatly disrespectful of the craft and care that anyone involved with these films put into them.
