its an exciting movie i didnt get bored in this 2.5 hours great there are several reasons attracting me to watch this movie. i think the first one is that movie was actually filmed in hk. when i first heard this news i felt quite excited about it and so wished i could see the real batman on the top of ifc or central plaza.. of course i didnt come to see him. its actually amazing that seeing hong kong in that famous hollywood movie hong kong is very beautiful of course its sweet to hear some cantonese as well the second reason was heath ledger. i was very interested in seeing how this character made him that stressful did he die for taking too much drugs which could relieve his stress or he was just a drugs abuser i dont know but i am sure its very pity for a young actor like him died so early he acted actually quite good in the movie his facial and body expressions were too great as well as the way he speaking the third reason was edison chan. how did his sex scandal affect his character he was appeared in the movie within 5 seconds and spoke 1 sentence. i had no idea what he supposed to act in this film but i couldnt see his character is necessary in that movie. in fact another unknown chinese guy mr lau was an important character. i like that scene most when the joker planted explosives on two ferries of evacuees and gave the passengers on board the chance to destroy the opposing vessel one full of prison convicts and another with civilians in order to save their own lives. when the civilians first heard that some of them had already suggested the cops to push the button and let all prisoner die. to be fair the cop decided to distribute everyone a piece of paper and let all people to have a vote for saving themselves or killing others. surprisingly there were still quite a lot of people voting to not kill the prisoners. i think its a very hard decision a man stood up and said the criminals were deserved to die and they were sinless. nobody wanted to take the action to kill the people in other boat that man thought he could do so he stood up and pick up the controller and eventually put it down and returned to his seat. on the other hand the boat with prison convicts were silent they were humbled as they realized they had committed different types of crime. at the very last minute a big man stood out and told the cop that i know you dont want to die you can tell everyone i attack you and steal your controller and he got the controller and threw it into sea. what a brave man i think this guy is much better than those civilians. at last both vessels occupants decide they would rather not sacrifice the lives of the passengers in the other vessel for their own. eventually nobody killed as the joker didnt put the timer on its just a trick that he wanted to test how selfish people were in the very hard moment its great that people won on the other hand even a very good men can fall like harvey dent the so called white knight of the city corrupted as her girlfriend was killed. good story that let me to think more about the meaning of scarify never think how important you are. dont be that over-confident and arrogant always be humble like the sinner instead of hero
