its an action movie starring christian bale who to me is the best batman ever.in the movie batman tries to save gotham city from villains along his servant alfred he manages that with his technology and martial training. bruce wayne a billionaire uses his technology of building weapons from wayne enterprises in the purposes of good.fox morgan freeman builds the weapons and the car of batman. after joker exits the picture of villains in gotham i looks like its time for batman to have another enemy so the producers introduce bane tom hardy a very powerful enemy who always wears a mask because of an awful accident.it has an amazing cast with marion cotillard anne hathaway joseph gordon lewitt and others. christian bale represents very well the epitome of a billionaire at day superhero at night.  you feel as if you could reach out and touch the prison walls. and darabont is an accomplished button pusher. he coaches the actors so that you always know exactly who to root for and against. when it comes to a character like the warden bob gunton all bible- thumping righteousness the movie has no compunction about turning up the hissability factor. he starts out mean then turns meaner then meaner still. when andy blasts mozarts the marriage of figaro over loudspeakers to the prison work field it becomes a full-scale opera-soothes-the-savage-breast number with the prisoners standing open-mouthed at the sublime sounds. the scene is meant to fire our righteous liberal hearts. it helps of course that most of the prisoners dont actually behave like criminals. they never say a word about their pasts-even andy remains a downtrodden cipher-and this lends the proceedings a hollow generic feel as if darabont had constructed a blueprint out of old prison melodramas. a movie like the shawshank redemption with its brazenly mechanical plotting and its wish-fulfillment finale requires a lead actor who can carry us on the wings of his good spirits. tim robbins is crafty and likable when andy is hoodwinking the guards and he makes you feel the characters mute anguish. yet in shouldering what is essentially a laconic- good-guy neo-gary cooper role robbins never quite makes emotional contact with the audience. his face foggy and placid suggests an overgrown babys  theres something naggingly unformed about him. morgan freeman on the other hand with his delicate smolder his eyes that seem to peer directly into everyones soul makes red feel genuine lived-in. speaking of the prison walls he says first you hate em. then you get used to em. after long enough you get so you depend on em. thats institutionalized. with his gift for rapt pauses for caressing just the right syllable freeman can make a speech like that sound like one of the philosophical nuggets of the ages. then again isnt it time morgan freeman stopped playing the soulful sidekick while were on the subject of prison walls an actor as great as he is shouldnt get too used to movies like this one. b-
