its a usual misconception when people say that dark knight is overrated just because of an amazing performance by heath ledger as the joker. the jokers acting which by the way is one of the best acting you will ever find is just an icing over the cake. from the start the movie is fast paced which is necessary for a thriller movie which makes you lean forward with your chin on your palms elbows on your thighs and mouth wide open throughout the movie. the movie is one of its kind because you experience the best dialogues memorable performances great direction and an amazing message that goes through your heart. i have already mentioned about the performances which is topped by heath ledger as the joker but the dialogues cannot be appreciated unless you see the movie itself but the movie has nerve-chilling dialogues that you cannot miss. the message on the other hand is something really extra ordinary. something that you wouldnt expect from a superhero movie. at the end of the movie batman takes the responsibility of killing a certain number of cops. or in simple words he portrays himself as a villain in the eyes of people. what kind of a dumbstruck superhero would do such a thing well only batman can. for the sake of people retaining their faith in good which was ignited in them by harvey dent batman risks his image by turning into an apparent villain. he believes that at the end of the day these citizens will be the heroes of themselves. he believes that some day gotham city will no longer need batman to bring justice. he wants them to be independent on batman. many people never like it in the first go. i myself never did. but watch it once more to understand why everything happens because the movie is directed in a very logical and planned way. everything in the movie has a reason for its occurrence. so those who havent seen the movie yet - you cannot miss this movie those who didnt like it for the first time - watch it again. and for those who loved it id still say - watch it again.
