it was the film that never seemed to have a break cut out for it. adapted from a steven king short story usually a sure sign of success yet a disappointment at the box office. nominated for seven oscars yet emerging with no wins. but hope sprung eternal and as life began to imitate art like its central characters the film the shawshank redemption overcame such initial adversity to become one of the most revered and cherished films of all time. director/screenwriter frank darabont working from steven kings short story rita hayworth and the shawshank redemption brings the tale to life in a superbly powerful and emotionally flooring fashion. darabonts script executes the incredibly difficult task of speaking directly to the human spirit with its tale of passion and dedication overcoming captivity and adversity. few modern films are bold enough to tackle such shamelessly inspirational themes as shawshanks without coming across as painfully clichթd but darabonts airtight script chock full of timeless lines and steady careful directing are enough to raise the film above such concerns instead marking a film of which the emotional magnitude is seldom paralleled. from roger deakins sweeping operatic cinematography to thomas newmans truly beautiful and inspiring musical  to the dank gritty realism of shawshank prison itself the films consistent quality on all fronts is truly stunning. it is easy to see a story such as this easily falling flat with an inferior cast taking on the material but darabonts incredibly gifted and memorable cast is truly up to the challenge taking a wonderful story and making it truly timeless. tim robbins truly brings unconventional convict andy dufresne to life never without a passionate twinkle in his eye even in his most beaten down and hopeless of scenes. rather than typical leading man grandstanding robbins is wise enough to remain subtle and detached throughout making the role all the more mysterious and endearing as a result. the inspired casting of morgan freeman as fellow inmate red resulted not only in a series of sumptuous voiceovers by one of the most melodious voices in hollywood but also in a genuinely heartwarming supporting character with freeman building a career of playing similar wise mentor figures off his performance. the supporting cast being comprised mainly of relative unknowns strengthens the believability of their characters leading the audience to see them as their character and not as the star behind the role. bob gunton is chillingly effective as the hate-inspiring prison warden infusing more menace into his reedy voice and deadpan stare than any scenery chewing antagonist could capture. character actor clancy brown also crafts another simple but effective antagonistic role as the captain of the guards. gil bellows is a strong presence as a rebellious inmate and james whitmore is charming and lovable as aged prison librarian brooks. overall the shawshank redemption is an astonishing accomplishment addressing shamelessly uplifting themes in a fashion which is sentimental but never sappy larger than life but never melodramatic. in many ways the film feels like a throwback to the days of classic cinema where directors strove to make films which made their audiences happy but darabont easily dodges contemporary scorn by unabashedly and honestly pitching the film towards the human spirit and firmly establishing it as a timeless classic with its impeccable package of flooring technical work screen writing and acting. far from being a simple prison drama the sheer emotional voyage of the shawshank redemption is enough to drain any viewer both crushing their spirits then euphorically raising them in a truly peerless fashion. while red may declare hope to be a dangerous thing its darabonts fearless tackling of the tricky subject which really sets shawshank free. -10/10  beautiful but plain  action-packed but clever  touching but cynical  and oh these characters.. i love the film though i dont count tarantino a genius or something as you may think not. 
