it is the best superhero film ever made. the batman proved that he is more than a hero the dark knight n heath ledger the joker commendable villaini think the best villain ever complete portray of lucifer a great n best child of lucifer. the all praise goes to the whole team of the film n especially to the christopher nolan. the script is extraordinary the screenplay is unbelievable classic and cinematography that is basis of the featured filmsis truly exceptional and remarkable. i think the joker more ruled than the dark knight and its seemed the serious and grave tom and jerry storyin which the jocular criminal joker is tom and the classic hero is batman:the dark knight and at the end the good won. loved it most....  i felt as if ive gone through the struggles that he went through as well. you could see how time is irrelevant in prison  you feel minutes go by when its actually days weeks months and years. and then youll feel disappointed at all those years where you could have done something different in the world outside. the film is also an eye-opener. you open your eyes to what its like in prison  although the prison in the movie seems more ideal than real life prisons. you get a glimpse of brutality and rape inside prison. you get to see how some prisoners become institutionalized and never seem to want to leave anymore. there is also a depiction of how rampant corruption is and its sad to think that those involved are the ones who are supposed to be protecting and abiding by the law. the cast is great. i couldnt ask more from tim robbins and morgan freeman. even the other prisoners are good too. overall i think that the main point of this movie is never to lose hope  that hope is always a good thing. this movie is as equally good as forrest gump and pulp fiction movies that were made in the same year as this but i cant understand why only these two movies got most of the attention. all in all this movie certainly is the kind of movie to watch before you die. 
