it honestly does little to his stature by mentioning that author j.r.r. tolkien was a genius but its as true as anything i know. his words told a story but its what they leave behind with the reader that made all the difference. something deep touched director peter jacksons heart when he first read it and i know this because i felt it too when i read it and again the same feeling when i saw the movies. say what you will about the integrity of events or characters in this adaptation but theres no denying the passion and solidarity to tolkiens work. `the lord of the rings: the return of the king is the point where all lines characters story events from past to present draw together and complete the picture so wide in scale so epic in its execution that it takes more than just a few minutes to truly appreciate the complexity of this giant film. i have seen nothing like it before in my life and remain in awe of the gift of success that came at such an enormous risk. much that was once doubted or criticized has been washed away in a sweet tide of victory from the filmmakers. but aside from all the obvious technical and narrative achievement of each film the most amazing feat that jackson and company was able to accomplish was bringing these three continuing films together seamlessly as one free flowing tale. as the camera lens widens with epic visuals of massive armies and battle scenes the story simultaneously narrows in on the relationships and character struggles. on one hand its about the peoples of middle-earth and on the other its about the individual characters whose fate is entwined into these horrific circumstances. neither one overshadows the other as jackson manages to juggle everything with such care and expert deliverance. much of the films success is due to the intricate development of so many wonderful characters that remain at the foreground of jacksons film versions. superb casting has seen this become the most beloved element in the films something you remember strongly toward the end when we see them saying goodbye there is a genuine feeling of loss and accomplishment as we conclude this journey together. peter jackson has worked hard its plain to see and the rewards are more than one could wish for. what he has done with this legendary tale is go far beyond just making three movies. he has ushered in a new era in film with outstanding quality and approach ever vigilant of the viewers. these films are for the fans by the fans and he has done all this without taking his eye off the ball as a filmmaker. it is over now but the films are instant classics that will live on through the test of time. i am thankful for the chance to see these movies in my time and will be forever grateful for peter jackson and his good heart. here at the end of it all i look back spellbound. `the return of the king is an amazing conclusion not only to the hard long journey but also to the captivating world of middle-earth. so much has gone into these films and so much has come out of them to the lives of the people around it. i am touched by peter jackson and the work from his amazing visionaries who knew above all else that what they had was something special to tell. every frame is littered with detail and splendor. not a moment is lost to carelessness or brevity. its loving and frightening. it will take you on the trip of your life into golden fields and dark tunnels. overall it just tells a fantastic story. its a story that has lived on for generations and will continue to inspire and entertain. we will never see the likes of it again as it respectably slips into history as the great trilogy that ruled them all. for the quest is achieved and now all is over. i am glad to have been there too.  - 5 out of 5
