in this review im not going to give a plot synopsis of this film because im sure everybody else who has commented on it has. however i will express the positive effect it can have on the viewer if they let it. the acting is uncommonly magnificent. morgan freeman delivers the greatest performance of his brilliant career as the seasoned life-serving prisoner ellis boyd red redding tim robbins holds his own against freeman as andy the central character james whitmores portrayal of the institutionalized brooks provides the backbone of the story bob gunton is wonderful as the corrupt warden norton and clancy browns commanding performance as captain hadley the sadistic head prison guard almost makes him steal the show from freeman. frank darabonts restrained direction of the delicate story is critical for the film to not become sentimental or clichթd and his beautiful adaptation of the stephen king story on which the movie is based is a real breath of fresh air. on account of darabont the film shows that special effects are not needed to tell a great story in film. as a 17-year-old male i love special effects movies as much as the next person but they get boring after a while. plus many people forget that there was a time in cinema when the blockbuster didnt exist when they made movies that just told great stories and gave the audience a chance to be uplifted by those stories without the creators having to resort to special effects. i applaud you for having the guts to make a non-commercial film that reminds people of that in this day and age mr. darabont. spoiler alert as with all truly great films the shawshank redemption is full of scenes that have become entrenched in the publics collective consciousness. theres the scene where andy plays the opera record over the loudspeaker for all the inmates in the prison captain hadley bashing fat @$$ to death for crying during his first night in prison a very powerful scene red giving his rehabilitated speech to the board of parole officials the warden getting his final judgement and of course andy crawling to freedom through what red in his narration calls 500 yards of s**t-smelling foulness i cant even imagine the scene which for me is perhaps the greatest movie scene of the 90s. end of spoilers i thoroughly recommend this cinematic masterpiece which has earned its place in my humble top ten films of all time list to anybody. whatever gender age religion nationality etc. you are and whatever language you speak i guarantee it will change your life or perhaps even save it. movies like the shawshank redemption only come along once every decade if that. unforgettable. 10/10.
