in every trilogy the third was not the strongest mostly the first sometimes the second. but in the lotr its the third film that is the best the strongest and the greatest one. a terrific climax and a beautiful ending. but it was sad because there will be no lotr next year:-. everything that has a beginning has an end. in my comment for matrix revolutions i said that the matrix failed where lotr will succeed. ive never been so right in my whole life. the movie is one whole thrill. 3 hours and of suspense darkness and despair and the resting 20 minutes were just beautiful and gave the movie a perfect ending. but there is always hope a light at the end of the tunnel. the special effects were the best ever. the battle in minas tirith the battle at the black gate and the fight between frodo sam and shelob. matrix reloaded and revolutions were also breathtaking but they overwhelmed the characters the characters in lotr stay strong and stronger than ever especially aragorn sam gollum and frodo. i watched the movie twice and there were two scenes that made my flesh creep the rohirrim attacking the orcs and a silent shelob behind frodo really spooky. the battle and the nature of good and evil have never been so deep amazing and beautiful as before. but i was totally satisfied at the end where sam says his last line. the last line in the film was the same last line as in the book. then i went back to my home never been so happy. 10/10  he totally rocked in the previous films. telling us to wait for the extended version isnt right. maybe jackson should have foregone one of the too many endings in rotk to give lee some film time. that said all the elements that worked in the previous movies were absolutely glorious in this film. the one new thing that i would add to so much that has already been written is that big kudos must go to the great tolkien artists alan lee and john howe whose artistry shaped so much of the imagery from the first moments of fotr to the final scenes of rotk. this historic trilogy would not have been the same without them. the lotr enterprise has clearly been a great labor of love from all who worked on it over the years and this final installment was a crowning achievement 
