in an era when filmmakers of mediocre ability can get financing to do grunge slash thrillers or sex-pie college comedies of farrelly-manque nonsense this poll serves to illustrate the gratitude of fans everywhere at being served such a luscious 9 course meal of a film. or 3 of them. at the directors own insistence the writing the production the editing the art design the sound planning the actors/characters the costumes the music the effects. everything was delivered until the limits almost gave. none of these and all of them are the stars. to say this vote reflects only appreciation of the special effects is to disingenuously shoulder aside the leadership and dedication and commitment from all teams required to produce not just one but all three films to such incredible standards of consistency to the books while pleasing worldwide fans and new audiences as well as all ages. schindlers list was not spielbergs story by authorship any more than tolkiens was jacksons both borrowed a cultural event one historical one literary story to exploit on the big screen using the appropriate talent. thats what filmmakers do. and if theyre smart they get the right material. i dont think spielberg could have delivered lotr. but i have a funny feeling pj might have come close to sl. both proved their genius by traveling outside their closest strength positions and moved to new arenas. both borrowed from past projects and knowledge of film to create the dramatic impacts they engineered in those films.you cannot say because one was historically based then it was by that ilk superior. schindlers list may be the most sociologically impactful movie ever made but it was not the best. there was exploitation and the nazis character was colored fancifully and schindler was not the spitting image of liam neesam etc etc. you can read history without the women prostituting themselves and children lying in outhouse filth. spielberg made the same kinds of decisions making that movie jackson did making rings but each used special effects of a different kind. did naziism happen in black and white that anyone would seek to disprove rings popularity by citing the more proximate and non-disputed sociological consciousness raised by sl is gaging on the wrong scale. i would not pay to see sl again once as enough. but ive paid a dozen times x3and for the extended dvds to relive tolkiens world because like those characters i believe theres something good in this world worth fighting for. and jacksons world gives me and others a place to go to encourage us. the films are about hope. wasnt that the message from schindler as well
