in 2003 lord of the rings- return of the king won top honors at nearly every major award ceremony and set a new record for box-office receipts one that would stand for six years. it blew audiences away with its epic storytelling and scale surpassing even the previous two entries in the trilogy. it was a truly great film. and now with the extended version its even better than before. the reason why return of the king is so great is threefold. first its based on one of the twentieth centurys greatest works of literature. secondly director peter jackson has remained true to source material leaving as much as possible intact. and lastly this project saw a near unprecedented infusion of talent and money. from the director to the extremely large cast to the effects wizards at weta everyone knew what they were doing and gave it their very best. nothing was held back no expense spared and no detail overlooked and the result is pure awesomeness. one of tolkiens greatest talents as a writer was his ability to fill his worlds with a host of distinct interesting characters each with their own strengths weaknesses and struggles. jackson has included nearly all and through them explores myriad themes. in aragorn vigo mortenson we see a man who overcome his self-doubt and accept the mantle of greatness that he was meant to wear. hes also the embodiment of true courage being brave or perhaps crazy enough to pick up the seeing stone and tell sauron here i am come and get me. in frodo elijah wood the story explores how even the most ordinary of people can accomplish great things but also how even the purest can be tempted by power and corrupted by evil. one figure who cannot be corrupted however is samwise gamgee who represents perhaps the ultimate example of friendship and loyalty sharing every hardship remaining ever vigilant against gollums treachery and the rings corruption and braving a giant spider and a fortress of orcs to rescue his friend even after he had turned on him. even the relatively minor characters are well drawn and add to the story. take pippin and merry. theyre just a couple of goof-offs the friends who are just along for the ride. but before the story is done both will play important roles in the greatest battle of the age. aeowen for her part embodies both duty to ones people and the the pain of unrequited love. and legalos and gimli though largely relegated to sidekick duty still show how friendship can transcend racial boundaries and old grudges. but the most interesting character of all must surely be gollum. twisted physically and mentally and with a severe case of split personality he hates his very existence and he hates the ring for what its done to him but he desires to possess it even more. hes like a schizoid drug addict- a violent yet often hilarious schizoid drug addict. its amazing how quickly he can go from playful and comical to pure venom. and no-one does a more unsettling conversation with himself. hes murderous hes repulsive hes pitiful and hes one of the most interesting characters in twentieth century literature. of course this isnt all internal struggles and character development  just made for a perfect ending. through all the movies you see the characters go from complete strangers and in some cases enemies to close friends. only the strongest friendships are formed in the toughest of situations. this series shows that perfectly. to see the struggles and the victories brought to life so well is amazing. i would definitely recommend this and all the other lord of the rings or the hobbit movies to any fantasy movie lovers. 
