in 1947 banker andy dufresne tim robbins is convicted of murdering his wife and her lover based on circumstantial evidence and is sentenced to two consecutive life sentences at shawshank state penitentiary. andy quickly befriends contraband smuggler ellis red redding morgan freeman an inmate serving a life sentence. red procures a rock hammer for andy allowing him to create small stone chess pieces. red later gets him a large poster of rita hayworth followed in later years by images of marilyn monroe and raquel welch. andy works in the prison laundry but is regularly assaulted by the bull queer gang the sisters and their leader bogs mark rolston. in 1949 andy overhears the brutal chief guard byron hadley clancy brown complaining about taxes on a forthcoming inheritance and informs him about a financial loophole. after another vicious assault by the sisters nearly kills andy hadley severely beats bogs resulting in bogs being sent to another prison. andy is not attacked again. warden samuel norton bob gunton meets with andy and reassigns him to the prison library to assist elderly inmate brooks hatlen james whitmore a pretext for andy to manage financial duties for the prison. his advice and expertise are soon sought by other guards at shawshank and from nearby prisons. andy begins writing weekly letters to the state government for funds to improve the decrepit library. in 1954 brooks is freed on parole but unable to adjust to the outside world after 50 years in prison he hangs himself. andy receives a library donation that includes a recording of the marriage of figaro. he plays an excerpt over the public address system resulting in his receiving solitary confinement. after his release andy explains that he holds onto hope as something that the prison cannot take from him but red dismisses the idea. in 1963 norton begins exploiting prison labor for public works profiting by undercutting skilled labor costs and receiving kickbacks. he has andy launder the money using the alias randall stephens. in 1965 tommy williams gil bellows is incarcerated for burglary. he joins andys and reds circle of friends and andy helps him pass his general educational development g.e.d. examinations. in 1966 after hearing the details of andys case tommy reveals that an inmate at another prison claimed responsibility for an identical murder suggesting andys innocence. andy approaches norton with this information but the warden refuses to listen. norton places andy in solitary confinement and has hadley murder tommy under the guise of an escape attempt. andy refuses to continue with the scam but norton threatens to destroy the library and take away his protection and preferential treatment. after andy is released from solitary confinement he tells red of his dream of living in zihuatanejo a mexican pacific coastal town. while red shrugs it off as being unrealistic andy instructs him should he ever be freed to visit a specific hayfield near buxton to retrieve a package. the next day at roll call upon finding andys cell empty an irate norton throws one of andys rocks at the poster of raquel welch hanging on the wall. the rock tears through the poster revealing a tunnel that andy had dug with his rock hammer over the previous two decades. the previous night andy escaped through the tunnel and the prisons sewage pipe with nortons ledger containing details of the money laundering. while guards search for him the following morning andy posing as randall stephens visits several banks to withdraw the laundered money. finally he sends the ledger and evidence of the corruption and murders at shawshank to a local newspaper. the police arrive at shawshank and take hadley into custody while norton commits suicide to avoid arrest. after serving 40 years red receives parole. he struggles to adapt to life outside prison and fears he never will. remembering his promise to andy he visits buxton and finds a cache containing money and a letter asking him to come to zihuatanejo. red violates his parole and travels to fort hancock texas to cross the border to mexico admitting he finally feels hope. on a beach in zihuatanejo he finds andy and the two friends are happily reunited.
