in 1947 andy dufresne vice president of a bank in portland is accused of killing his wife and lover of this a famous golfer and sentenced to life imprisonment for each although no conclusive evidence of authorship  being sent to shawshank. he is above the average of others who believe a snob though red one of the most popular men prisoners get to ask everything you like and soon become friends which does not relieve you of fall into the hands of sisters about homosexuals who do not leave you alone. red lends a hand and you choose to fix a roof outside the prison. there listens andy financial problems of a guardian and offers to save. that makes his fame transcends and in a few years made the statements of all of his prison guards and other county. it also serves to definitely get rid of your stalkers of concern to guard. he also placed in charge of the prison library where you write a letter every week to the senate for funds to it with its insistence getting the best prison library in all of new england. but see also the despair inside having spent his entire life in prison does not want to go outside where everything is hostile to them. the old brooks former manager of the library outside is nothing and commits suicide. he has a special treatment to keep the accounts of the corrupt warden that prisoners performing work with which anyone can compete and companies who want to work you must pay a hefty commission that andy becomes white money inventing a fictitious character where even get legal papers. andy is also responsible for helping those who wish to study including tommy a boy who wants to change his life. thanks to him tommy manages to get the graduate. and is the guy who tells him that in one of the prisons in which he was matched with a guy who told her he had killed a golfer and his mistress and the fact that her husband accused her. andy sees in confession a glimmer of hope which is truncated by the warden that does not help and ends with the only thread of hope making kill tommy. andy himself will spend two months in solitary confinement for refusing to follow accounting warden. the output will return to it but that night disappears from his cell without anyone knowing what happened to him until they discover a tunnel after a large poster of raquel welch. and once outside the bank will draw up character warden $ 300000 in addition to sending a letter with proof of corruption all the press. norton commits suicide. some time later after 40 years in prison is released network for him life on the outside is as absurd as to brooks and think back to crime to return to their home. it only holds a promise i made to andy that he would go to a field where there was something for him. he does and finds enough money to go to the place where andy said that if one day be installed leaving a mexican village by the pacific where a hotel ride. red goes there to be his assistant. great movie you see them.
