imdb top 250: 12 the lord of the rings: return of the king is an incredible conclusion to the trilogy a masterpiece of its genre and a fantastic film. it wraps up everything and has the biggest most grand epic battle ever. if youve seen the first two films and just havent found time for the third go make time and reward yourself four 3 and a half hours. the opening scene came completely out of left field and left me thinking. it shows how smeagol came to acquire the ring and the power it instantly had over him. we also see what the mad creature looked like before he was well gollum. its a great flashback like a lost flashback and lets us learn about of the most interesting characters in the mythology. then like a good conclusion there is buildup. the characters reunite and realize that this is it the final battle. at the same time frodo and sam begin to near the end of their journey and their scenes actually serve a purpose. we see the black gate and the emergence of saurons army with the too-cool witch king. we watch the seaside town by gondor fall easily and later a grisly part involving catapults and heads that seemed just a tad too mature but reminds the viewer the ferocity and primitive nature of the orcs. in a grand montage the beacons are lit signalling rohan to aid. during this aragorn legolas and gimli go to find aid from elsewhere. the stage is set for a huge battle. and what a battle it is. other than the mines this is easily the single greatest scene in the trilogy. it takes up a good chunk of the film. the scale and visual realization is unrivalled. the elephants complete the scene as well as the witch kings fate. its spellbinding. the ring finally taking a toll on frodo nears mount doom. while the giant war is a massive battle the ring quest is a small battle. frodo tragically has degenerated with sam having to push him to the end. the scene inside the volcano is amazing as well as frodos line. these two plots are interwoven and create the most remarkable fantasy ever on screen. after all is said and done we are treated to a bittersweet epilogue showing what happens to the characters giving good closure. return of the king is a stunning film worthy of its oscar glory and critical praise. ill let the number speak for itself. 9.6/10
