im really looking forward to the last film of the the dark knight trilogy the dark knight rises which will be released in this summer. so i reviewed batman begins and the dark knight. i was quite impressed by them. the story of batman begins is about the reason why bruce wayne became batman and the story of the dark knight is about overcoming adversity. but at the same time he lost a lot of things and became the dark knight. alfred a faithful butler of bruce wayne talked to bruce when bruce returned from his work as a batman with his injury. alfred: now your limit master wayne. bruce: batman has no limit. alfred: but you dosir. at this time bruce hadnt realized the fact that even batman had his limit. harvey dent a prosecutor believing in justice and bruce were fighting against the evil in gotham city together. harvey talked to the citizen of gotham city about hope. harvey: the night is darkest just before dawn. i promise you dawn is coming. they were heroes so they were bound by their morality. for example batman could never kill anyone. but their enemy joker was completely free from any rules. he could do anything and drove them into the corner. joker: im an agent of chaos. oh do you know about chaos its fear. bruce realized his inability and talked to alfred. bruce: what do i have to do alfred: endure master wayne. and then batman tried to wiretap all people in gotham city in order to find where joker was. batman: beautiful isnt it fox: beautiful unethical dangerous. this is wrong. in the end harvey dropped into his dark side like darth vader. joker: i took gothams white knight and i brought him to our level. it wasnt hard. madness as you know is like gravity. all i take is a little push. harvey: the world is cruel. the only morality in the cruel world is chance. batman dared to suffer the disgrace saving harveys honor as gothams white knight. at the end of the dark knight batman as a dark knight was chased by police. gordon: hes a silent guardian a watchful protector a dark knight. id like to talk a little about myself. when i was 20s and 30s i believed that i had no limit. if i had been serious i could do anything i thought. but in fact i was never so serious and i couldnt accomplish anything. after i have suffered from depression i realized that i had my own limit. i asked myself what i had to do and just endured my worthlessness. so i can understand how harvey and bruce felt. i myself can come back to our society. im looking forward to seeing how batman as a dark knight will get himself back in the dark knight rises.
