what has been said that hasnt been said before the story the characters the music the special effects the visual effects the cinematography the source material the endings the plot in a nutshell: frodo and sam are on mordors footsteps with the doubtful intentions of gollum leading them. meanwhile sauron is angry at the heir of isildur and sets to attack gondor. the greatest battle scene ever conceived and made takes place. but its not the end. the good guys win the battle but the war is still on. frodo has been betrayed by gollum and left to die with shelob. he survives but unconscious and is taken right into mordor by patrolling orcs. there after being rescued by sam they set off to mount doom to destroy the ring. but in order to distract saurons eye from witnessing all of this aragorn and company set a fight in front of the the imposing black gate. theyre more than positive that they will lose. but frodo fights and falls repeatedly until he gets right above the fire. when hes about to turn away as the ring always manage to do gollum appears and fights frodo for it. thankfully the once hobbit falls with the ring in hand and both are melted in the lava. mordor sauron and the orcs are destroyed. the good guys win. aragorn is crowned but it is he who bows to the hobbits for their services were even greater then what anyone could have ever done. this is where you can turn off the tv stop the dvd or change the channel. the rest is just frodo saying goodbye. my opinion i loved the movie never in the history of film-making there will be a fantasy movie as original engaging universal and pure fun as the lord of the rings. im not sure if peter jackson had in his mind that the movie would be the ultimate epic that it has become. this chapter is the best in the three. yes the many endings drag but at least when i saw it in the theater i didnt want it to end seriously. the  here goes all out. while it has the same dramatic touch from the previous it bigger in scope even the simplistic boy chant when gollum contemplates the ring for the last time is epic and ecstatic. i personally would have ended the movie with the final shot on minas tirith and a pan on the map of middle earth. a beautiful perfect scene. the rosie cotton loose end had to be tied up i think because people wouldnt think sam and frodo had more than friendship which due to the sociological contamination of the media is rather ambiguous. but even as it has some drawbacks these arent enough to take away any stars from this pictures rating. it has made history and it has become the star wars for a new generation not even the prequels could imitate the impact this new trilogy had. best fantasy movie ever this is not a naive statement that will pass on whenever another fantasy movie is made. its for real. you can just feel astonished. how can a movie be that great  audio/sound: 10/10 return of the king deserves much praise for its auditory work making the viewer really enjoy this movie. audio/music is a very important part of a movie and this movie certainly reaches sky-high on that level. every bit of music and sound mixing fits extremely well with the scenes in which they have been placed. editing: 10/10 with a very few exceptions the editing done for rotk is close to flawless. it does not get confusing to watch neither is it boring or slowed down at any time. the pace is done with the mind of a perfectionist. you are kept on your toes throughout the movie. visual effects: 10/10 although not completely perfect there is not any moment of bad effects which would have made many disappointed. they are in fact extremely well done and deserve 10/10. screenplay: 10/10 the screenplay writers deserves extremely much praise for what has been achieved. when watching the movie everything seemed to fit perfectly well. screenplay is a very important part of any movie and in comparison to rotk no movie i have ever watched comes close to it. directing: 10/10 peter jackson is a perfectionist and he boldly takes on one of the hardest directing jobs possible and he succeeds the lotr-trilogy is beyond doubt the best that has ever been made and rotk is its crowning masterpiece. acting performances: 10/10 there is no best acting ensemble but there is best performances by an acting ensemble and in rotk everyone does a truly amazing job. there is a harmony in the ensemble and all are clearly doing the best that they can. every actor glows in the scenes which they are a part of and makes the movie ever so much more enjoyable. 10/10 art design: 10/10 every detail from minor to major is done to perfection. we really get a feel that this is middle-earth which is not by any means an easy job. in this movie this remains one of the most important aspects and is done beautifully. costume designs: 10/10 as with the art design this is also done to perfection. we really see middle-earth and with very much thanks to the clothing and costumes. make-up/hair: 10/10 this too plays an important role and is of course extremely well done. from the beautiful elf to the ugly orc all is congruent and we believe what we see to be middle-earth. summary: what we have here is a movie that is done with careful perfection and a loving heart and with the utmost respect for the novel by j.r.r. tolkien. the achievements of every part of the movie is undeniably close to perfection and what we are left with is a stunning experience that will leave marks on anyone seeing it. it is no exaggeration to call this movie the greatest of all time and the evidence is there for all of us to see. you dont have to enjoy the story to see that what is created is a masterpiece of movie-making. this is the only movie i have seen that deserves a 10/10 overall and i am in fact surprised that it is not above all others at the top-list of imdb. but on top of the list or not this is the best work ever done in the motion picture market and has made movie-making into an art 
