i work in a video store and there is something i experience every day. although there are more and more superhero-movies out there and even more are coming up soon many people still disregard them. and one cannot really judge them for that because after all these movies are still quite special in a way. one does not only have to like action-movies but apart from that one has to suspend ones disbelieve as to accept the supernatural or superhuman maybe even more than in science-fiction. however regardless of whether you like superhero-movies or not or whether you like action-movies or not in my opinion there is no way around christopher nolans batman begins and his other movies for that matter and the movie this review is about: the dark knight. in it the masked vigilante batman continues his struggle against crime in the fictional metropolis gotham with the help of police commissioner gordon and the new district attorney harvey dent. some time has passed since the events of batman begins and the struggle is going quite well. until they have to face the mysterious and sadistic criminal mastermind called the joker and the chaos he unleashes. the cinematography is great solemn and sublime wide shots are mixed with intensive close shots and stunning action-scenes. the colors and the light are hard and realistic and get darker and darker as the movie proceeds. as for the cast christian bale gives the best performance as batman/bruce wayne there has been so far he is disillusioned and vulnerable and still not willing to give up. he is a mere human who has to play the role of the playboy and billionaire on the one side and a masked vigilante a symbol for hope and justice on the other. gary oldman underplays his part as jim gordon in a down-to-earth simple way. maggie gyllenhaal is both tough and vulnerable as rachel dawes lawyer and bruce waynes love michael caine plays a supporting father-figure as bruce waynes butler alfred aaron eckhart is both shining and charismatic as harvey dent and twisted and wrecked as two-face- the list could be continued throughout the whole cast. to them: take a bow you have been part of this great film
