i watched this movie for the umpteenth time probably last sunday and how much i loved it yet again a movie i would never ever get bored of and definitely one of my all time favorites. a simple yet wonderful story about hope hope _—– one word that drives all of us and gives us reason to live. we push ourselves through our mundane lives in the hope of achieving / finding something that we dream of. in the words of this movies protagonist _—– hope is a good thing maybe the best of things and no good thing ever dies superlative performances by tim robbins and morgan freeman. a must watch if you havent  sm’©agol is continuing with his plan to lure frodo and sam to their doom in shelobs lair and gandalf aragorn legolas and gimli are reunited with merry and pippin at isengard. when pippin looks into the palant’_r a sort of dark crystal ball he sees the city of minas tirith under attack unfortunately he himself is seen by sauron. galdalf takes him to minas tirith when he rides there to warn of the impending attack while the others remain behind to raise an army large enough to assist in that coming battle. i thought that the battle of helms deep was impressive but it seems a mere skirmish compared to the battle of minas tirith here there are thousands of orcs supported by mercenaries mounted on gigantic elephant like creatures that are large enough to crush a man and his horse under their giant feet. all the time this battle rages frodo and sam are journeying deeper and deeper into the land of mordor to mount doom in order to end saurons reign once and for all. this is probably the best film of the trilogy i can see why it raked in the awards the only weakness was the epilogue once the quest was completed the film could have ended at the crowning of the king rather than going on to their return to the shire... even though im aware that this was in the book. peter jackson did a fantastic job bringing such an epic story to the screen he was of course assisted by a fantastic cast who really brought the characters to life. 
