i was literally hooked. no wonder this film is rated amongst the best ever. this is definitely one of the best movies you will see your entire life. morgan freemans narration was awesome. tim robbins powerfully illustrates the importance of hope. all the characters did a superb job. this is surely one of my all time favourite movies. its a classic & a true masterpiece of cinema... dont think just watch & savour it. i saw the following comment by someone and thought of adding it to mine i agree 100% to everything of the following: many people in this world are unhappy. most people in this world dont want to be unhappy. lots of people wish pray and above all hope for that magic wand to wave and wash them of their fears losses angers and pains once and for all. they see lots of other people seemingly in this magical state while they suffer. to borrow the words of another film theyre watching the bluebirds flying over the rainbow. many unhappy people have learned that the magic wand doesnt exist. theyre not destined to join the bluebirds and fairy tales dont come true. its not that no one lives happily ever after its just that theyre not going to. theyre busy dying. in this film or as some people have quite correctly said this fairytale magic wands exist. and that magic wand is andy dufrense imitating houdini. however this film is not about him. neither is it about the prison the governor the guard the plot the acting the cinematography the script the direction or the . its about red. he is the one who has become institutionally unhappy hes not only trapped in a prison not only has he given up on the idea of ever leaving not only does he have no hope he knows that if the miracle would ever happen to him he couldnt cope. hes safe in his unhappiness and that security is what keeps him going. hope is as red say dangerous. the metaphor for a certain illness here is very clear to me and i know that a rather large number of people suffer from it. a large proportion of those dont understand whats wrong but they certainly can recognise a fellow sufferer. those who are mercifully untouched by this illness definitely dont understand whats going on in those who do. theyre too busy living. just a little piece of advice to everyone who hated/disliked this film  . a thousand kisses and million thanks for you. a very must see a greatest cinemas history event... 
