i thought batman begins was a very well conceived and put together movie. we finally get batman as a fully rendered character. we gain new insight into his motivations and the variables he must contend with in his role as protector of gotham. we get to see gary oldman as an honest-to-goodness good guy. and we get to see liam neeson conducting perhaps his strangest facial hair experiment yet. but after seeing the dark knight batman begins will forevermore be viewed by me at least as a handy little prologue to a frickin masterpiece of a superhero film. to say its the deepest mainstream comic adaptation ever produced would be akin to calling the nolan/ledger joker a bit eccentric. while watching it i found myself thinking it was very long which is usually a sign that its too long and therefore boring. but thats not actually the case here. the script is bulging with ideas philosophical musings themes which christopher nolan is not content to gloss over in favour of cool set-pieces as many comic adaptations are but wants to explore wants to allow the characters to explore at a logical pace. so what i guess im saying is considering what it sets out to do the movie is long enough while still constantly holding the viewers interest. and thats not to say the thematic exploration comes at the expense of big action either. on the contrary there is some truly awesome stuff going on here. the chase with the truck for example is fantastic and theres some great hand-to-hand stuff too. but what engages us most is the characters and while the script is brilliant the dialogue is sharp and quite funny for the first two-thirds before the drama really kicks in this mainly comes down to the cast. christian bale. taller than michael keaton was. more menacing than val kilmer was. less like adam west than george clooney was. solid and committed as always. he gives the character life and actually makes us feel for him. the word tortured keeps coming to mind...and i suppose its pretty appropriate. heath ledger. yknow id heard talk of an oscar nomination and thought it sounded a bit dubious. a batman villain winning an oscar is that what its come to then i thought is it because he didnt get one for brokeback or more dubious still...is it because he...died but...well...how can i put it... it seems a bit blasphemous to compare jack nicholson to cesar romero but after seeing heath at work...jack who once seemed so awesome just looks...well...lame. if youve seen it you hopefully get what i mean. if you havent...you need to. you will discover the true definition of commitment. maggie gyllenhaal. i didnt have any problem with katie in the first one at the time but i doubt she could have pulled off the more emotional stuff rachel goes through here. seeing recasting was necessary does tom have a problem with his wife being involved with batman too many bad memories perhaps why am i even talking about such garbage here they could have done a butt-load worse than maggie. she rocks. as does aaron eckhart. but im not giving anything away. suffice it to say my mind was blown...again. makes tommy lee jones look like...you get the idea. michael caine. still one of my favourite actors. alfred is the shiz. morgan freeman. morgan freeman. aok. gary oldman. as in bb no mania. no psychosis. no nervous tics. absolute subtlety. manages to hold his own alongside christian heath and aaron without resorting to parlour tricks. sign of spectacular talent. go gaz. eric roberts william fichtner michael jai white tiny lister the whole thing is just a big bag of thoughtful well-executed entertainment. its equal parts cerebral and visceral. ideas and action. ive liked every batman movie so far okay besides batman & robin but this one makes them all look pretty bloody ordinary.
