i saw this completely for the first time since i saw it at the theater 4 years ago i dont know how i couldve lived this long without seeing this masterpieceee and i hadnt realized how completely awesome this film is i absolutely loved it the story follows batman where we left him at the end of batman begins released in 2005 trying to still cope with the death of his parents and having to face his most infamous enemy: the joker. the story here is central to the movie and is everywhere. but it is also very emotional epic and sometimes it even has some deeper philosophical meaning to it. even though bb was pretty dark and totally different from past bat movies this one goes even darkerr it makes the villains a lot more realistic that ras in bb which was basically a ninja. here the joker is just an ordinary crazy guy who like alfred quotes at some point in the movie just wants to watch the world burn. the acting here is what sells the movie in my opinion. i mean michael caine as alfred morgan freeman as lucius fox gary oldman as jim gordon and of course heath ledger as joker all deserve special mentions as they all deliver awesome roles i mean seriously the joker is so scary and disturbing in this but at the same time we know why he does this as nolan delves deeply in both the psychology of joker and batman. ledger delivers the performance of his career in this r.i.p heath you will be missedd : hes absolutely brilliant as is the rest of the cast including bale as batman whose only gripe i have with his acting is the stupid voice he makes when he puts on the suit. its so cartoonish and distracting >_< but ledger definitely steals the show. special effects and editing are really good here with the former is even more satisfactorily showcased if you watch the film on bluray which makes everything look absolutely gorgeous every airborne shot in this is epic. also the music is also something which enhances the experience in a truly remarkable way. the main theme here is so awesome and overall the music in this composed by known composer hans zimmer just makes the movie all the more exciting and emotional when it needs to be. overall this movie is a must-see for any bat-fan superhero movie or comic book fan out there. the acting story music etc... everything is just so perfectly balanced to create an even better and epicker i know ive said the word epic in pretty much every paragraph in this review but cut me some slack i love this movie xddd film than its already superb predecessor.
