let me just say that the plot is good the story seems cool the message is good but when you start watching the movie it just gets worse and worse till the end it is a complete waste of time giving you nothing but a bad taste in your mouth this movie really sucks anyone who thinks this movie is great has never seen a good scifi movie before or is on drugs or being paid matthew mcconaughey keeps mumbling threw out the movie absolutely cannot stand the irritating music that booms on boring things trying to keep you interested in actors that dont even do a good job i mean matt? seems like a amateur everyone seemed very lame and there are no aliens there is no life there is nothing to make you go wow you see the same people doing a lot of nothing hoping they all get killed so the movie will end and the logic the science they screw up on their mission and some of the special effects are worse then 1960s doctor who the only thing good about this movie are some of the great cgi scenes other than that i think it is one of the absolute worst scifi movies i have ever seen so many bad things it would take me a year to write it all down it is a classic movie classic as being top 10 of the worse ever scifi made in the last 10 years how can this crap get such high reviews? it is very low budget bad acting bad everything has anyone ever seen star wars star trek? inception? or apocalypse now? if not watch one of these great movies then watch this total crap movie it should get a score of no more then a 4 at the most but the ruining of the actors makes me give it a 1 on top of all the illogical nonsense especially at the end he goes into a black hole? like his body could survive it? but lets just say he could then multi dimensions to where he turns a clock and then that saves humanity somehow? while crashing into a building somehow looking in a window then somehow they build a colony in space that of course he wakes up to a baseball game which is probably the only reason he agreed to do the movie to them rebuilding his old crappy house back home? i mean what the heck? makes no sense at all how did this movie hack the movie rating system?
