if this had been written and played as a straightout dark comedy  and if it had been at least half an hour shorter  perhaps it would have passed as a run of the mill movie but since it has been presented as a serious mystery it has committed the cardinal sin of filmmaking  that of disrespecting the intelligence andor perspicacity of the audience for us the film represents a significant achievement in that it contains more and larger plot holes than any other movie we have ever seen  and weve seen many this was even worse than babel that said  and a warning that reading further will take you deep into spoiler territory  the following is by no means a comprehensive list of the major holes in the plot so ladies and gentlemen start your engines and drive your semis straight through an impressive array of plot stupidity 1 amy buys a car listed on craigslist for cash so theres no record of the purchase how about title and license? where does she keep the car until she needs it? how does she get to it when she needs it without being seen? 2 amy buys lots of tech toys and crams her sisterinlaws shed with them how does she get into and out of the shed without her sisterinlaw who doesnt like her noticing? 3 the shed is where her husband sometimes has liaisons with another woman they dont notice the accumulating gadgets? 4 the gadgets are bought online who is signing for them? 5 when the gadgets are investigated whose fingerprints will be all over them  if there are any? 6 desi is supposed to have broken into the house beat her bloody and kidnapped her theres blood all over the kitchen but none where she would have been dragged out of the house? 7 as he supposedly leaves the house with an at best barely conscious amy desi picks up her diary takes it to her fatherinlaws place and attempts to burn it in the furnace why? 8 how does desi know where amys fatherinlaw lives? 9 several days elapse from the time of the supposed kidnapping until amy winds up at desis lake house can nobody attest to desis being at home during the time he was supposed to be kidnapping amy? 10 what will be made of the video cameras at the lake house not showing anyone there for the first several days? 11 desi was supposed to be holding her prisoner did nobody at the casino notice them there  including the man who thought she looked familiar? 12 where does amys car wind up? 13 phone records i amy makes the anonymous phone call tipping the police off to the contents of the shed no record of that? 14 amy scores a hole in one at miniature golf and jumps up and down for joy  which causes her money belt to fall off this apparently was an acme money belt on loan from wile e coyote 15 a couple robs amy of all her money being the psycho she is are we to believe that she is going to let them get away with it? 16 phone records ii what is going to be made of amys phone call to desi? sure it was from a pay phone but isnt it going to raise any flags? 17 amy selfinflicts wounds  supposedly in the bathroom out of sight of cameras  to make it seem as though she has been bound and raped yet wouldnt the cameras show her entering the bathroom without wounds and emerging with wounds? 18 amy winds up in the hospital upon her return they put wristbands on her and one guesses they examine her  but they dont bother to wash the blood off of her 19 do they also fail to notice that there is no evidence of the injuries that would have occurred had she lost copious amounts of blood at the initial kidnapping? 20 nick knows that amy tried to set him up for her murder thus opening him up to a possible death sentence he also knows that when her plan blows up she elects to murder someone who has never wronged her other than being male in order to cover up her actions which until that point may have been criminal  but not capital  offenses why does nick elect to live in the same county as this woman let alone in the same house? i could go on but i realized before the movie was halfway over that i had already wasted too much of my life on it
